The Führer has probably never had so many happy people gathered 
        about him for his birthday as in this year. All the 75 million people 
        of the Greater German Reich stand before him to express their heartfelt 
        best wishes and deepest thanks to him. In the truest sense of the word, 
        this is a holiday for the entire nation. The banners of National Socialism 
        fly from north to south and east to west. And beyond our borders, millions 
        upon millions of our ethnic clan join with the citizens of the Reich in 
        a unique affirmation of loyalty, connectedness and faithful attachment.The highest form of joy there is on this earth is to make other people 
        happy. Who has had this joy in fuller measure than the Führer himself. 
        The unhappiest people on whom God’s sun shone has become the happiest 
        in this wide world. Not one German in our great fatherland would wish 
        to be a member of another people or a citizen of another state. That for 
        which all good Germans have always longed and hoped has now become reality 
        under the blessed hand of the Führer: a single people in a great, 
        free, and strong Reich.However justified it is for us Germans to rejoice in this new national 
        good fortune, to be always aware of it, we may also not forget that it 
        did not just fall into our laps like a ripe fruit, but rather that we had 
        to earn it through difficult battle with hard and sometimes bitter sacrifices.The success that we as a nation may so happily enjoy is the result of 
        great challenges, endless work, and deep responsibility. The Führer 
        was the one who over the past years had to bear most of the challenges, 
        work, and responsibility.People realize this instinctively. In recent weeks, the broad masses 
        of our people joined spontaneously and ever more loudly in the cry: We 
        thank our Führer! They were joined by those in German Austria, and 
        soon it was as if a fanfare resounded throughout the whole Reich. This 
        had a deeper significance. People found their own way of expressing a 
        feeling of thanks that today is shared by all people of German blood. 
        It is a feeling of thanks that can no longer be put into words, but rather 
        it can only call to action.Often we sat next to the Führer on the terrace of his home on the 
        Obersalzberg. Far in the distance between the mountains, German Salzburg 
        would appear in the silvery sunlight. His mind at least, with all its 
        cares and longings, leapt over the distance and sensed what history would 
        bring, making for a moment reality of imagination. Long columns of people 
        stood outside the Berghof It always brought tears when groups or individuals from German Austria 
        came. They usually did not say very much; only rarely was there a shout 
        from their ranks. Usually they marched past the Führer in deep silence. 
        If he called for some of them to come to him, they could rarely answer 
        his questions because their voices became lost in tears.We remember those nighttime hours of a Wednesday in March, already part 
        of history, in which the former Herr Schuschnigg gave his treasonous speech 
        in Innsbruck, and the first alarming reports reached Berlin. The Führer 
        strode with long steps across the room, and his face displayed godly anger 
        and holy fervor. Here was the best German, whose cradle was in Austria, 
        and who had a far greater right to speak in the name of German Austria 
        than the then spokesman for this so-called independent state. He was deeply 
        wounded by cowardly treachery. This was the decisive turn in events. There 
        was no going back: either Schnuschnigg would succeed once again in legitimizing 
        his terror regime through an election swindle, or the people itself would 
        rise up and appeal to heaven for its rights.Here we learned the Führer’s true greatness. The two days of nervous 
        tension that followed showed him at the height of his tactical and strategic 
        command of the means and methods of a well planned and considered political 
        program.The people still had no idea of what was taking place. They went about 
        as if nothing had happened, walking down Wilhelmstraße to Wilhelmplatz 
        with only a shy and respectful glance toward the Reich Chancellery. Here 
        the Führer lived, here he worked, here he bore all the burdens and 
        responsibility.Until the decisive Friday when things finally started rolling, and the 
        Führer gave the order to march late in the night.None of us would have been embarrassed by our tears as after midnight 
        we heard on the radio the Horst Wessel Song being sung for the first time 
        in Vienna. The hour of salvation had come.If one were to ask me what the greatest difference between a parliamentary 
        democracy and an authoritarian system was, I would answer:It is but one proof more of his deep political instinct, rooted in his 
        connection to national feeling and thought, that the hour of greatest 
        danger was also the hour of his greatest triumph.How moving it was as he crossed the Innsbruck bridge, entering his hometown 
        and birthplace Braunau for the first time in many years. We saw pictures 
        in the newspapers of women giving him flowers as he stepped on Austrian 
        soil.The eyes of these women shone with the deepest and purest joy, such that 
        one cannot imagine more beautiful human faces. We saw a picture of a man 
        who climbed onto the Führer’s automobile with his hands raised as 
        if in prayer, and we had the sense that here the depths of the human soul 
        came to the most perfect expression.Probably never before have the hearts of all Germans beat faster or more 
        passionately than in these afternoon and evening hours. The nation knew 
        that the Führer was on the soil of our German Austria, and never 
        did his beloved voice seem warmer and nearer than on this evening, when 
        he spoke in Linz for the first time in his homeland. Hundreds and hundreds 
        of kilometers from us, and yet near to us all, he spoke of the joy that 
        filled his heart.That was the Führer as a person, the same man who then spoke in 
        Vienna as a statesman and ruler of the national fate as he made his greatest 
        announcement to the German people The dreams of his youth had been realized. He had entered the soul of 
        his people as a man and as the Führer.Perhaps it is also a religious act to put his whole life in the service 
        of his people, and to work and act for the happiness of people. It is 
        a religion without empty phrases and dogma, which nonetheless springs 
        from the deepest depths of our soul. That is how our people understands 
        it. We Germans are today perhaps more faithful and pious than others who, 
        though they never tire of praising God with their lips, have hearts that 
        are cold and empty.It is therefore no empty phrase when all of us in our great Reich join 
        with those beyond its borders, across seas and continents, in asking the 
        Almighty to grant the Führer long years of health, strength, and 
        a blessed hand. That is the deepest and holiest wish of all the children 
        of our ethnic group and of our blood. May the ether bring through my voice 
        this national prayer of a people to the furthest corner of the earth where 
        Germans dwell, live, and breathe. It is a deep prayer, full of hope, faith, 
        and national pride.There are men one respects, men one admires, and men one honors. We love 
        the Führer. He is the great symbol of the resurrection of our people, 
        towering over our age.He is to us what he was to us, and he will remain to us what he is to 
        us: Our Führer! 