 The German people celebrate the Führer’s birthday this year in a 
        particularly somber manner. This fourth year of the war has been the hardest 
        yet, and an escape from its burdens and sorrows, or its end, is nowhere 
        in sight. Its enormous political and military events span all five continents. 
        Wherever one looks, peoples and nations are affected by its pains and 
        sacrifices. Hardly a nation  has been spared the grave political and 
        economic impacts of this vast military drama.Here and there critics of weak nerve and character, usually

      from those nations least impacted by the war, question whether

      human culture and civilization will be able to survive the war

      at all, and make worried calculations as to what part of humanity’s

      proud inheritance will remain once the war is over.Goebbels delivering the speech In the midst of the trials and burdens of the moment, it is
        
        all too easy to forget that this war, in contrast to those of
        
        the past, has a thoroughly national or racial character. That
        
        is why both sides fight with such bitter determination. The participant
        
        peoples know that this time it is not a matter of a more or less
        
        significant change in national boundaries, but rather a matter of
        
        national survival.A small event has had world-wide effects. But it would be

      false to see the real cause in that event. Back then our opponents

      had a thousand chances to meet our just demands without in the

      least harming their own power, image, or prestige. The enemy did

      not want it that way. They wanted war because as the English

      prime minister said as early as 1936, Germany had become too

      strong.Now and again we must remind ourselves to look back on the

      start of this war to understand its progress to the present state.

      A hypocritical enemy propaganda is constantly at work to conceal

      the war’s true causes, to make people forget the liberal-democratic

      phrases of yesterday and accept the seductive ones of today,

      to make the guilty seem innocent and the innocent seem the cause

      of this great misfortune.We need only to recall the Führer’s many unfortunately

      unsuccessful attempts to prevent this war by limiting armaments

      to a rational level. He made every conceivable effort to prevent

      the clash of nations that he foresaw. And how often he has tried

      to end this war at the earliest possible moment.It was all in vain. The wicked forces that wanted this war

      cynically and frivolously desired, and still desire, all-out

      war. What are the misery and misfortune of the world’s peoples,

      their own included, to them? They want only their personal enrichment

      and unlimited power over all the nations and continents. They

      did not come from the people, as we did. They therefore will

      never understand the real needs of their people.Their brutal cynicism, the result of their alien, indeed their

      perfidious attitudes, causes them to passionately hate the National

      Socialist people’s movement and the National Socialist German

      people and nation, and above all the Führer himself. They

      see him as a newcomer to the business of leadership, which to

      them always means the betrayal of the people under the rule of

      money.Just as the enemy’s hated world is personified for us by certain

      men, so, too, certain men personify the world we love and defend.

      By the nature of such an enormous war, he who leads it gives

      it its mark. And not only that. Just as he feels its good fortune

      and successes with double or triple depth, so too he feels two

      or three times as deeply the misfortunes of grim fate. Naive

      people may imagine that leadership in times of peace is easy

      and pleasant, but even they sense that in war, with the heavy

      responsibilities it brings, those at the bottom who need only

      follow orders have it much easier than those at the top who must

      give the orders. They are the Atlases who bear the world on their

      shoulders.Every great figure in history has at times been filled with

      the intoxicating feeling of holding, like God, the fate of the

      nations in his hands. Much more common, however, are long hours

      of bitter and passionate struggles for historical responsibility,

      of silent and desperate battles with forces that sometimes seem

      superhuman, of struggles against an unjust and hard fate which

      sometimes brings to ruin carefully made plans and destroys hopes

      that once seemed near.It is easy to speak and write about the beginning or the end

      of military crises. Only he is in the position to judge who has

      himself faced a crisis with only the strength of his own strong

      heart. Long days and long nights over weeks and months leave

      their unmistakable marks on his face. The sorrow and pain of

      individual people pile up around him as a mountain of sorrows

      and pain of the entire people.While the normal individual must master only his own fate,

      however difficult it may be, the Führer bears the fate of

      the entire nation. During critical moments, millions of eyes

      look toward him. They gain consolation and hope from his face,

      from the firmness of his manner, from the certainty of his gestures,

      from the confidence of his appearance.People often say that the Führer is the image of the

      German people. That is true in a way deeper than we often think.

      If one could watch the face of our nation change during this

      war, we would see the same transformation that we see with serious

      pride in the face of the Führer. The lines, the hardness,

      the decisiveness, but also the deep passion for the people and,

      in a broader sense for a humanity forced into so much bitter

      difficulty against his will and plans, are unmistakable.How cynical in contrast are the stupid and frivolous grins of the current 
        leader of Britain during his public appearances. One hardly has to ask 
        which of these two enjoys war, and who therefore wanted and provoked it. 
        The face of the guilty one betrays him.Despite all their shouting, our enemies have not been able

      to weaken the magic force of the Führer’s personality. It

      grows in power every day. In a time like ours, so short of great

      men, the presence of such a man on our side amazes even our enemies.It is clear why Anglo-Saxon agitators spread their lies and

      slanders about the Führer and his work. They realize that

      his programs and aims are reaching the whole world, even their

      own nations. A nation has no greater possession than such a powerful,

      timeless personality who casts his spell on both friend and foe.Even some in Germany may complain that the Führer is

      totally absorbed in his work during the war, though it is the

      decisive factor in all that is happening. His behavior is in

      eloquent contrast to that of his counterparts with the enemy,

      who never miss an opportunity to stand in the spotlight. They

      apparently need that, perhaps because they sense that their lives

      and work will not last all that long.Men of real historical stature are above such behavior. They

      do not draw their strength from the changing applause of publicity,

      but rather from their historical mission which fulfills a higher

      law. We know of no great historical achievement that did not

      involve the hardest blows of fate. Indeed, the hardness and bitterness

      of the tests demonstrates their true worth.When we look back on the past two fearful winters when the

      Führer stood at the head of the army to meet and overcome

      an almost unconquerable fate, we remember Prussian-German history.

      He and we do not need to shy away from the comparison. The German

      people, betrayed by its entirely cowardly leadership in the late

      fall of 1918, became weak, and the hardest fate fell upon it.

      In the past two winters, however, the Führer and his people

      have proven that they are prepared to overcome historical failures

      and to pay the price of a great victory.It is not easy for me, in his fourth birthday of the war,

      to portray the personality of the Führer in its proper relationship

      to the sweeping events we are witnessing. He himself is entirely

      absorbed in his work, the end of which he foresees. Though we

      may sometimes regret his intense commitment, his modest style

      and nature bring him even closer to our hearts. In the great,

      breathtaking victorious phase of the war, we admired and honored

      him. Today we have learned to love him from the depths of our

      hearts as we have seen him overcome with bitter determination

      the hard and painful blows of fate. What a consolation it is

      for a nation to have as its leader a man who embodies for all

      an unshakable confidence in victory! He shows no trace of the

      chattering that our enemies love so much, but rather we see only

      a realism driven by deep fanaticism.Often in the course of this war people have praised the technical weapons 
        and claimed that the final victory would be determined by the amount and 
        quality of material. We do not want to underestimate their importance. 
        Even more important, however, is the spiritual readiness of a warring 
        nation to bear all, even the worst, rather than to bow to the strength 
        of the enemy. The Führer embodies this attitude for us. Before he 
        gave his all to the cause of peace; now he gives it all to the cause of 
        war.He did not want war and did everything in his power to prevent it. Now 
        that it has been forced upon him, he stands at the head of his people 
        to wage it with every means. How often in the history of our movement 
        have we seen him avoid a conflict that he thought unnecessary or harmful, 
        but once it became unavoidable he fought to victory, whatever the obstacles. 
        So it is today.We gather on the evening before his 54th birthday according to our custom. 
        We do so as a united and determined nation, bring him greetings of honor, 
        thankfulness, and every possible good wish for his person and for his 
        historic mission. We do it this year with particular confidence.The danger that surrounds us has not weakened us, but rather made

      us fully alert. When a people must take the greatest risks to

      ensure its survival, it is well advised to banish the devils

      of doubt and discord so as to concentrate completely on its historical

      mission. It is not possible to make this clear in all its details

      to every citizen. It must therefore find expression in the will

      and the orders of the Führer.Confidence is the best moral weapon of war. When it begins

      to fail, the beginning of the end has arrived. No matter where

      we look, we see no cause for such concern. It exists only in

      the propaganda dreams of our enemy. The more hopes they put in

      the moral weakness of the German people, the greater will be

      their disappointment.The fact that we do not speak of Germany’s confidence every

      day is no reason to believe that it is absent. One usually does

      not need to talk about the obvious. If anything has become obvious

      to we Germans, it is the loyalty and absolute subordination of

      all at the front and at home to the man who embodies for us not

      only the German present, but also our expectations for Germany’s

      future.I say this in the name of the entire German people, the spokesman of
         whom I now feel myself more than ever to be. I say it in the name of
        millions  of soldiers in every branch of the armed forces who are fulfilling
        their  hard duty at the front, in the name of millions of workers, farmers
        and  artists, of millions of women, who bear the difficulties of the
        war with  patience and bravery, and in the name of the German youth,
        who bear his  name with pride.As a nation of 90 million, we lay before him our faith. We

      believe in a German victory because we believe in him. Our good

      wishes for him rise from the deepest depths of our heart. God

      grant him health and strength and his grace. Loyally and faithfully

      we want to follow him wherever he may lead. He is our faith

      and our proud hope. We will walk firmly into the future his hand

      points toward.A people that calls such a leader its own, that follows him

      with such unconditional loyalty, is destined for greatness. It

      need only desire that greatness.We, the Führer’s old fighting comrades gather around

      him now as always in the decisive moments of our struggle. We

      belong to him. We were the first he called. How often we walked

      with him through trials and dangers. At the end of the way was

      always the shining goal.So it is today. We never want to lose sight of it. With our

      gaze fixed on the goal we will fight and work on. We are the

      example of faith, of bravery, of unchanging conviction. We are

      the old guard of the party that never wavers.As the first soldiers of our people, our wish for the Führer

      on his birthday is the same one that has always moved our hearts.

      May he remain in the future what he is today and always will

      be: Our Hitler! 