 Not only fortune, but also reputation is always shifting during
        
        a war between great men and nations. It is therefore difficult,
        
        perhaps even impossible, to determine the political and military
        
        importance of individual events in the midst of war. What yesterday
        
        seemed a brilliant move can within several weeks or months prove
        
        a major mistake, and that which seemed short-sighted and mistaken
        
        can later become a decision of deep wisdom. Only when a war is
        
        over, and usually some time after that, once its lasting results
        
        have become clear to all, is it possible to objectively weigh
        
      and evaluate its individual events.That was true of every past war, and presumably of this one

      as well. The war can be evaluated only as a whole. Beside the

      events of the moment, a war has larger historical significance.

      Only a trained and practiced eye can understand that larger significance

      during the war itself. For example, consider the vast differences

      in Frederick the Great’s reputation during the Seven Year War,

      particularly from 1760 to 1763. His personal reputation and that

      of his work during his day was influenced by partisan considerations,

      but today we evaluate him historically, that is, objectively

      and justly. His individual actions and decisions were evaluated

      in various ways. Given the circumstances of the time, some seemed

      to lead to victory, others to defeat. Even those in his entourage

      could not properly evaluate them.A genius acts from instinct, sometimes consciously but often

      unconsciously, which raises his actions out of the ordinary sphere.

      Great, timeless personalities have to fulfill not only the tasks

      of the moment, but larger historical missions as well. Unfortunately,

      the two do not always agree. A war of vast historical significance

      brings with it the heaviest sacrifices and burdens. The less

      these problems are seen by people in their broader historical

      significance, the likelier the struggling generation will be

      misunderstand them, or even to think them avoidable.This explains why those at the time and posterity evaluate

      historical events differently. We can think of numerous historical

      examples. We can hardly understand today why the contemporaries

      of Alexander the Great or Caesar or Frederick the Great did not

      understand their true significance. To us there are no secrets

      any more.It is somewhat surprising that those who may get the most

      excited about historical misunderstandingss are also the ones

      who are least able to make the proper historical judgment regarding

      their own day. They are people who have the ability to evaluate

      the events and developments of earlier eras, but who lack the

      capacity to judge the historical happenings of their own era

      in a way that posterity will respect.Which of the events of the present war will be significant

      in a hundred years? It is difficult to judge individual events,

      but even today one can with some assurance predict the factors

      that will influence posterity’s evaluation of this great drama

      of the European peoples. It is not a matter of things whose traces,

      even by our present understanding, will have vanished several

      years after the war is over. For example, few signs of the damage

      to Germany’s cities caused by enemy air terror are likely to

      remain ten years after peace comes. What is likely to be recalled

      are the attitudes and behavior of those who withstood the terror.Whether Europe becomes Bolshevist or whether we succeed in

      rescuing our continent and its people from this deadly threat

      will influence the future of many, perhaps all, future generations.

      This is the decisive historical significance of this war. The

      man who in the end frees our continent from its spiritual and

      military difficulties will be at the conclusion of the vast struggle,

      from the standpoint of history, the man of the war.That does not change the fact that his opponents have done

      and are doing everything in their power to hinder the historical

      mission of the man who stands above his times. They are using

      their material superiority in population and weapons in an attempt

      to bring his work to naught. But all this will only increase

      the honor history will give him and add immortal fame to his

      name. Once the foul mist of vile and despicable wartime polemics

      has lifted, he will suddenly appear as the great historical figure

      of this enormous international drama, both to the living and

      even more to the coming generations.And what of his opponents, who were ready and willing to throw

      the two thousand year history and civilization of our continent

      into chaos? They will be of interest only as the dark background

      to the greatness and foresight of this shining figure.Was not this also true when we were fighting for power? How

      often did the Führer battle long-forgotten political parties

      when rescuing the Fatherland? How often did cowardly journalists

      attempt to persuade us that they were not only his equal, but

      his political superiors! Today even their names are forgotten.

      All that remains is the historical personality, one who stands

      above his times, and who despite all the challenges that sometimes

      seemed insurmountable found the solution to the German dilemma

      and saved the nation.Victory determined everything then, as it will today. The

      end of this war will bring with it either the end of European

      history and any historical meaning from our point of view, or

      our victory will give our continent a chance for a new beginning.

      The fame belongs alone to the man who saved Europe from its most

      terrible danger, who despite the turns of triumph and defeat

      came through at the end and thereby saved not only his own nation,

      but the continent. This conclusion springs not from any desire

      for fame or national superiority, which is granted nonetheless

      by the sense of justice of the best in every nation who understand

      the graveness of the hour.I am sure that I speak to the heart not only of every old National Socialist, 
        but to that of every German. We all feel part of a historic mission. For 
        us, the goal of the war is not only clear, it is also unalterable and 
        unchangeable. The longer the war lasts, the more fanatically and committedly 
        we pursue it. To seek the goal means to follow the Führer, to do 
        his work with loyalty and devotion, to turn in the midst of the storms 
        of the war every personal thought and deed toward him. We are happy to 
        have him on our side, for he incorporates not only our firm faith in victory, 
        but also the constancy of our national leadership, the character of our 
        war outlook, and the integrity of our war aims.We only need to look over our borders to foreign and enemy

      peoples to see what he means to the nation and what he is to

      us all. It is easy and comfortable during times of great national

      successes, especially when they have been achieved without great

      cost of blood and sacrifice, to join the crowds of those shouting

      praises for the accomplishments of the national leadership, which

      everyone can see. It is harder to stay loyal to the cause in

      the middle of a long struggle for a nation’s very existence.

      Such a struggle demands the full energy of those who are not

      spared periods of sleeplessness or even occasional nervous exhaustion.

      But the harder and more bitter the circumstances, the more their

      deeper historical significance is revealed.We old National Socialists have never seen the Führer

      in a different role. Our greatest honor was always to stand by

      him in such hours, to protect his rear as he stepped forward

      into still unknown and dangerous territory, to give him the certainly

      that he was never alone. The National Socialist movement, the

      core of our present national community, developed in circumstances

      like these. The virtues of our movement, which overcame all barriers

      and obstacles during the hard years of the struggle for power,

      have become during this war the virtues of our fighting people,

      tested a million-fold by trial and danger: Our loyalty to ourselves

      finds its most visible but also its deepest expression in our

      loyalty to the Führer.When has there ever been such a fruitful relationship between a people 
        and its leader, and People of other countries see their leaders as the representatives

      of class interests, of parliamentary majorities more or less

      cleverly constructed, as necessary evils in the absence of a

      better alternative, or as the result of blind mass terror that

      stands upon millions of corpses.For us, the Führer is the spokesman and the agent of

      the will of the whole nation. Despite all the prophecies of the

      enemy, there has not been a single case, from the beginning

      of the war until today, in which a soldier broke his oath to

      the Führer or in which a worker in the home front renounced

      his loyalty to the Führer by ceasing his labors.We know that the enemy is unable to understand this, and attributes

      it to force or violence. But what we as a people and leadership

      have accomplished cannot be brought about by such methods. Other

      forces must be at work, forces of loyalty and community that

      cannot be understood by people who are unable to perceive them.

      That which we sowed before the war begun has grown to fruition:

      the rich harvest of solidarity between the leadership and the

      whole people.Permit me the freedom in this speech to say some things to

      the entire German people, at home and at the front, about the

      Führer personally. I have had the good fortune to be at

      his side during the period of struggle for power and during this

      great war, to be present at many, indeed most, of the particularly

      happy and critical hours. I never saw him doubt or waver. He

      always followed the call of his blood, and where it called he

      went, regardless of the difficulties. He stands above all other

      statesmen of our time in that he recognized danger at the proper

      time and took courageous action. The German people thanks him

      for that today, as will one day all of civilized humanity.If there is a divine gift to leading peoples and nations which allows
         great historical leaders to perceive instinctively the necessary and
        right,  and to combine this knowledge with an unerring sense of what
        needs to  be done at the moment, he is that blessed man. That the parliamentary
         mayflies on the other side fail to realize this is more a proof of his
         abilities than of their absence. Even the best leadership sometimes
        suffers  defeats and reverses. They are in fact the test that  proves
        its merits.  For all people and nations, war is a hard and pitiless force
        that separates  the strong from the weak and the industrious from the
        lazy.Has the Reich and its leadership ever failed the test? Have

      we ever stood confused and desperate before  approaching fate,

      unsure of what to do? We have always stood ready. A man always

      stood at the head of our people who was a bright and shining

      example. Even under the hardest blows he stood firm and the confidence

      of his heart turned the greatest misfortunes to our advantage.We don’t speak about it often, but we all know it. Never has

      the German people looked with such faith toward its Führer

      as in the days and hours when it knew the full gravity of the

      situation. It did not lose heart, but rather affirmed even more firmly

      and strongly its goals.When we looked back on November 1918, we could not rid ourselves

      of the bitter feeling that it was in part our own responsibility.

      But this time we have earned victory, and the goddess of history

      will not withhold it from us. The price of our coming victory

      is our loyalty. The war is not an occasion for loose talk and

      empty promises. It is a time to realize what we have so often

      said in the past. It depends on our oath to the flag and on the

      silent oath in our hearts.Wherever in Europe our soldiers stand in battle or on watch, wherever
         Germans work, wherever German farmers sow and harvest, wherever inventors,
         artists, and scholars ponder with crinkled brow the future of the Reich,
         wherever mothers pray for victory and children trust in it with quiet
         confidence, in distant nations and continents, on every ocean, wherever
         Germans breathe, the warmest wishes from the truest hearts for the Führer
          rise to the heavens.The fact that he stands at the head of our nation is for us

      all the surest sign of coming victory. Never was he so near to

      us as in the moment of danger, never were we so bound to him

      as when we felt that he needed us as we needed him.Through this we have dashed the great hopes of our enemy.

      They hoped that we would do what they could not. It was the only

      way we could be defeated. We have done what is necessary for

      victory.I am happy to speak to the German people at this hour. We have affirmed 
        in the past year our support and our confidence in the Führer’s work. 
        On his birthday we want also to speak the words that come from the depths 
        of our heart. We want to tell him what he is to us all, both in the trials 
        of the moment and in the shining future.We all wish him health and strength and a blessed hand. He

      must know that he can always rely on his people. When trial and

      danger is before him, we will stand more firmly behind him. We

      believe in him and in his historical mission, and believe that

      in the end he will be crowned with victory. He will be the man

      of the century, not his opponents. He gave this century its meaning,

      its content, its goal. Affirming the meaning and understanding

      the content, we will reach the goal. He points the way. He commands,

      we follow. We, his old and tested comrades, march in the first

      row behind him. We are tested by danger, steeled by misfortune,

      hardened by storm and trial, but also crowned with the first

      victories and successes of the coming new world. We are at the

      head of a countless multitude who carry and defend the future

      of the Reich.We defend the cause of the nation, which has found its visible

      form in the Führer .In this battle between life and death, he is and will remain

      for us what he always was: Our Hitler! 