 The National Socialist revolution is a typical German product. Its scale 
        and historical significance can only be compared with other great events 
        in human history. It would be false and misleading to compare this revolution 
        to other transformations in recent European history. True, it shares their 
        impulses, their energy, and perhaps even their methods, with some exceptions. 
        But its foundations, causes, and therefore results are entirely different. 
        It could not have happened without the war and the November Revolt, at 
        least in its speed and power.The Versailles treaty of non-peace stood in its way. Poverty, unemployment,
         desperation, and decay accompanied it through all its ups and downs.
        An  over-refined democratic parliamentarianism that today seems almost
        grotesque  found its last and highest expression. It provided the stage
        on which  National Socialism rose to power. We told our opposition often
        enough  that although we were using its weapons and rules for our purposes,
        we  had nothing intellectually or politically in common with them. To
        the  contrary, our goal was use these means to put and end to them and
        their  methods, to finally eliminate their theories and policies. Both
        in theory  and practice, National Socialism opposes liberalism.Just as liberalism after the French Revolution had various

      effects on every nation and people, depending on their nature

      and character, the same is true today for the forces that oppose

      it. German democracy was always a particular playground of European

      liberalism. Its innate tendency towards excessive individualism

      was foreign to us, which lost it any connection to real political

      life after the war. It had nothing to do with the people. It

      represented not the totality of the nation, but turned into a

      perpetual war between interests that gradually destroyed the

      national and social foundations of our people’s existence.National Socialism was able to overcome this condition of continual
        spiritual,  economic, and political crises only because the German people
        themselves  regained their composure, and found a political idea and
        organization  that corresponded to the character of the German nation.
        National Socialism  is a completely German phenomenon. It can only be
        understood in the framework  of German conditions and forces. Like Mussolini
        once said about Fascism, 
        “it is not for export.”Nonetheless, we see the National Socialist revolution as an

      event that affects the entire world. Besides, the solution of

      the German Question cannot be without consequences for the future

      constellation of Europe. It is a warning for the entire liberal

      world that Germany has replaced democracy with an authoritarian

      system, that liberalism broke under the blows of the national

      uprising, that parliamentarianism and the party system are outdated

      concepts for us.The past three years have proven that the strength of a new

      idea is stronger than the resources of an outdated worldview,

      even when it defends itself with the instruments of state. A

      new kind of authority has been established in every area of public

      life in Germany.The insane belief in equality that found its crassest expression in political 
        parties is no more. The principle of personality has replaced the notion 
        of popular idiocy. A united German nation was born, despite all the labor 
        pains. It is not surprising that those who benefited from parliamentarianism 
        struck their tents when they saw that National Socialism was firmly established. 
        They decided to take up their activity beyond our borders. That does not 
        mean they have given up on Germany. They believe their hour may not be 
        near, but that it will eventually come.They do all they can to cause the Reich domestic and international

      difficulties. These pacifists from head to toe do not even hesitate

      to urge bloody war against Germany in the foreign papers that

      are not yet wise enough to refuse them space.One cannot make sense of this situation without understanding

      the significance of the racial or Jewish Question.The National Socialist government also cannot ignore it. Our

      laws suffer hard and often unjustified criticism abroad, above

      all from International Jewry itself. But one should not forget

      that dealing with the Jewish Question through legal means was

      the best approach. Or should the government have followed the

      principles of democracy and majority rule and let the people

      themselves solve the problem?History has never had a revolution less bloody, more disciplined

      and more orderly than ours. In attempting to deal with the Jewish

      question and to approach the matter legally for the first time

      in Europe’s history, we are only following the spirit of the

      age. Defending against the Jewish danger is only part of our

      plan. When it becomes the only issue when National Socialism

      is discussed, that is Jewry’s fault, not ours. It has attempted

      to mobilize the world against us in the secret hope of winning

      back the territory it has lost.This hope is not only in vain, it also carries with it a series

      of dangers and difficulties for Jewry itself. It cannot prevent

      arguments throughout the world not only against our policies,

      but also for them. The discussion has taken on an extent that

      both in the immediate and distant future could have extraordinarily

      unpleasant consequences for the Jewish race.Richard Wagner once called the Jews the “plastic demon

      of decomposition” and Theodor Mommsen meant the same when

      he saw them as the “ferment of decomposition.” In contrast,

      the Aryan sees himself as a creative creature. There may be a

      certain tragedy inherent in the nature of the Jews, but is it

      our fault that this race works destructively among the peoples

      and is a constant danger to their domestic and international

      security?The fundamental differences between the two races were responsible for 
        the repeated explosions during the November years It was difficult for a time to persuade the people of this,

      for public opinion was entirely in Jewish hands.On a Berlin stage run by the Jews, a steel helmet bearing the words “Away 
        with the filth!” was swept into the dust heap. The Jew Gumbel said 
        the dead of the war had “fallen on the field of dishonor.” The 
        Jew Lessing compared Hindenburg with the mass murderer Haarmann. The Jew 
        Toller said heroism was “the most stupid ideal.” The Jew Arnold 
        Zweig spoke of the German people as a “horde that needed to be unmasked,” 
        as the “animalistic power of the eternal Boche,” and as a “nation 
        of newspaper readers, a herd of voters, businessmen, murderers, marchers, 
        operetta lovers, and bureaucratic cadavers.”Is it surprising that the German Revolution also broke this unbearable 
        yoke? When one further considers the alienation of German intellectual 
        life by International Jewry, its corruption of German justice that finally 
        led to the fact that only one out of every five judges was German, the 
        takeover of the medical profession, their predominance among university 
        professors, in short, the fact that nearly all intellectual professions 
        were dominated by the Jews, one has to grant that no people with any self 
        esteem could tolerate that for long. It was only an act of national renewal 
        when the National Socialist revolution took action in this area.People abroad often do not know the real causes of German

      Jewish legislation. The statistics are most persuasive.Nonetheless, we held back at the beginning of our work. We

      had more important things to do than to take on a question of

      such great scope. It is entirely the fault of Jewry that things

      turned out differently. The boycott and atrocity propaganda they

      made in other countries was an attempt by International Jewry

      to accomplish by means of public opinion in other countries what

      had been made impossible by our takeover in Germany. They attempted

      to cause difficulties for Germany’s rebirth through a worldwide

      boycott campaign, and to render it ineffective.We finally resorted to a counter-boycott during that critical

      period. The fact that their racial comrades still in Germany

      suffered loss is thanks to their racial comrades beyond our borders,

      who were trying to cause difficulties for us. They only caused

      economic difficulties for their own race. We can predict the

      future consequences for Jewry. We have not done anything to encourage

      them, they are simply the product of the times. Many clever Jews

      have already realized what they have done, above all to those

      remaining in Germany, who were the most directly affected. They

      shouted their warnings. But they could not overcome the radical

      wing, and in the end had to let things take their course for

      better or worse. This radical wing has delivered an extraordinarily

      hard blow to World Jewry and its allies. They put the Jewish

      Problem up for debate, and where it is debated the results can

      only be unpleasant. Jewry’s strength is in its anonymity; if

      it loses that, the results can only be harmful.The recent Zionist Conference in Paris shows the hopeless

      situation World Jewry has been driven into by its radical wing.

      When one of the various Jewish groups is no longer united, when

      there are only fruitless debates, it is a sign that Jewish power

      is on shaky ground. That is already beginning to have consequences

      for Jewry.These events reveal the racial problem in all its difficulty.

      It will not fade away until Europe’s peoples solve it. It will

      be solved when the people for their own good do what is necessary

      for their security.Our country still faces a world boycott by International Jewry, even 
        if it is not as open as it was earlier, and we are still threatened by 
        a cleverly thought out and systematically executed world conspiracy. The 
        fight against young Germany is a fight by the Second and Third Internationales 
        against our authoritarian state. The countries that tolerate or promote 
        it, sometimes in the mistaken belief that they are thus reducing troublesome 
        German competition on the world market, are bringing upon themselves and 
        their future a danger that we have overcome.They can do what they want; Germany has overcome the danger.

      It has taken radical steps to drive out Bolshevism and its ideological

      content along with its racially-linked concepts.If our battle against anarchy results in the racial problem

      becoming a world problem, that was not our intention, but it

      is fine with us. The conspiracy being forged against Germany

      will not lead to our destruction, but it will inevitably open

      the eyes of all the peoples of the world.Let me in closing say a few words about the measures we are

      taking against the world propaganda directed against us. It is

      clear that such a major campaign against Germany’s peace and

      security cannot go unanswered. World propaganda against us will

      be answered with world propaganda for us.We know what propaganda is, its power, and its ways and means. We did
         not learn it in school, but became its masters while doing practical
        work.  Our untiring educational campaign succeeded in uniting Catholics
        and Protestants,  farmers, the middle class and workers, Bavarians and
        Prussians, into a  unified German people. We joined the power of persuasion
        with the power  of the idea. We depended only on ourselves, conquering
        the state with  the power of faith and the power of the word. Who cannot
        believe that  we will succeed in persuading the world of the integrity
        of our actions?  A calm presentation of our case may not win love, but
        it will at least  win growing respect. The truth is always stronger than
        the lie.The truth about Germany will get through to the other nations,

      also in respect to the racial question. We have done what is

      necessary, and therefore fulfilled our duty. We do not need to

      fear the world’s judgment.The world is cordially invited to send its journalists and

      representatives to Germany so that they can see for themselves

      the courage and determination of the government and people to

      remove the last remnants of the war and the November revolt,

      and to introduce a balance of power that will guarantee Germany

      a secure existence, honor, and its daily bread. No one who sees

      this nation at work can have doubts about its future. The more

      foreigners visit us, the more friends young Germany will win.Our foreign situation today is identical to our domestic situation

      when we began. Those who attended our meetings then were struck

      by the crass contrast between what the enemy newspapers wrote

      about us and what we actually are. Visitors to Germany today

      have the same experience. Their experiences will be the beginning

      of respect. Any fair, thinking and objective person, wherever

      he may come from, will find a people and a government trying

      to overcome the difficulties of the postwar period by its own

      strength, and who are attacking the problems they face with hard,

      manly pride. We need to show the world what we once showed the

      other parties: We never lose our nerve.Modesty, clarity, firmness, and decency are the virtues that our kind 
        of German thinking wants to see in the world. There is nothing that is 
        impossible. That which seems impossible can be made possible by the power 
        of the spirit.Germany will not founder on the racial question; to the contrary, the 
        future of our people depends on solving it. As in so many other areas, 
        here we also shall be pathfinders for the world. Our revolution is of 
        enormous significance. We want it to find the key to world history in 
        the solution of the racial question. 