  This Sunday afternoon, the Youth Film Festival for the winter 1940/41 
        opens, held in conjunction with the Hitler Youth, the League of German 
        Girls, and the Reich Propaganda Office of the NSDAP. As was the case last 
        year, it will have an extraordinarily important role in youth work.The Youth Film Festival began in 1934/35. It included 371 events with 
        a total of 217,354 visitors. The event grew until 1939/40, when 8,244 
        events drew 3,538,224 visitors. Between 1934 and 1940, a total of 19,694 
        events drew a total of 9,411,318. This impressive result, like so much 
        that has been done by National Socialism, began small and grew gradually. 
        The first youth film festival was held in Cologne in 1934. As a result 
        of experiences there, the second season expanded to the entire Reich. 
        The Youth Film Festival grew from year to year, both in scope and significance, 
        until now it reaches small towns and even those areas without a theater.From the beginning, the goal was to use the German film as

      a way of systematically educating the German youth. The goal

      was also to give the youth another method of entertainment and

      education. During the season, this important festival should

      give the youth an overview of all areas of German film. Entertaining

      and cultural films are shown along with those having more political

      significance. Youth films are organized by the Press and Propaganda

      Office of the Reich Youth Leadership along with the Reich Propaganda

      Office of the NSDAP, Film Department. Each This is an important way of meeting the needs of the youth,

      especially during the war. The problem of the youth is especially

      difficult during difficult times. The war makes serious demands

      on the whole nation, including the youth. They need to display

      the necessary character to master the resulting difficulties,

      and to help those in authority to meet them as well.Often, fathers are in the field or engaged in other work important to 
        the war and are unable to give the attention to the education of their 
        children they would normally give in times of peace. The mother at the 
        same time is overloaded with work and problems. Often she, too, is involved 
        in war production, working to see to it that our soldiers have the munitions 
        they need, or working with the Red Cross, Mother’s Assistance, the National 
        Socialist Welfare Organization, or the Winter Relief. The education of 
        the youth does not follow its normal course. The HJ and the BDM have the 
        double duty to jump in to relieve the parents of burdens that under the 
        circumstances they cannot handle. The educational and other activity of 
        the HJ and BDM are hampered during the war by a thousand difficulties 
        unknown in peace. The necessary meeting rooms are lacking. They have been 
        taken over by the army or used for storage. Blackout regulations make 
        evening activities, which are very important, impossible to the normal 
        extent. In parts of the Reich, the risk of air raids simply makes systematic 
        educational work impossible. Alongside their usual tasks, the HJ, and BDM 
        have responsibilities to the Führer, the nation, and parents.Educating the youth during war can only be done successfully by working 
        closely with the youth themselves. The youth is not only the object, but 
        also the subject of its own education. Much that as a matter of course 
        is done at home or at school during peace is just as clearly impossible 
        during war. Through their attitude and life style, the youth must render 
        superfluous much of the educational work that  relevant organizations 
        handle during peace. The war is not only a great equalizer, it is a great 
        educator. Only what is essential can survive its hard laws. It transforms 
        all values. Things that we thought important or even essential during 
        peace, we gladly give up during war to serve the common cause. War once 
        involved only as small part of the population, whereas today it requires 
        heroic work by all. Since our enemy is waging war even against children, 
        children also must play their part. During the World War the English blockade 
        was particularly directed against German women and German children, and 
        had a major role in the fact that at the critical hour we no longer had 
        the strength to resist the English and French threat.Our enemy intended to use the same weapon in this war, and

      hoped for the same result. The German leadership, however, had

      taken the necessary precautions to render the English blockade

      ineffective. Nonetheless, the war is ultimately aimed at the

      coming German generation, and it is therefore more than symbolic

      that they have followed the flag to defend the German cause on

      the battlefield. The public knows the statistics on the number

      of fallen and wounded, particularly leaders of the HJ. They do

      not need to be repeated. They are compelling proof that the youth

      have made this war into their cause.The coming generation must fight the war at home. They are

      participants in it. They must display strong character and good

      behavior. When a nation is fighting for its future, which after

      all is the future of its children, the youth have to be involved,

      they have to support the battle with their full energy. They

      must show through discipline, order, industry, and attitude that

      they are worthy of their age, and of the men who are risking

      their lives. Cocky know-it-alls or big-mouthed boasters only

      look stupid. Particularly in the midst of a war in which millions

      of men are risking their lives for the nation, the youth must

      again learn respect for sacrificial manhood. They must also learn

      to honor women and mothers who are fighting for the continuation

      of their nation. They should be obedient and modest, and above

      all do their duty. That does not mean they have to act according

      to the proverb: “Go through the land with  hat in hand.” That was an idea of the past that we have left behind.

      Modesty is not the same as subjection, and a well-bred, disciplined

      lad of good character does not need to be a pussyfoot. Millions

      of soldiers today follow orders and do their duty. They have

      been willing to give up their own independence to serve the Fatherland

      in the community of the army. How much more should we expect

      that of German boys and girls during a war! They will become

      grown up, mature people of our great, proud nation, and many

      of them later in life will be giving orders to others. That is

      why they must learn obedience now, especially in a time when

      everything hangs on us all on doing our duty obediently.The HJ and the BDM are there to help parents educate their children, 
        since parents today are often in a position themselves to do only part 
        of the job. Every father in the field and every mother at home or on the 
        job must know that their dear child is in good hands with the HJ or the 
        BDM. They must be confident that boys and girls are being brought up to 
        be decent men and women.The time in which we are living is unique. It makes increased demands 
        on us all, the youth included. One or another may occasionally be inclined 
        to overestimate the demands of the age. But later, when the war is over, 
        crowned by proud victory, we will all look back on the duties and obligations 
        we now have with joy and satisfaction. We will forget our current troubles. 
        The months we now endure with faith and bravery will in retrospect be 
        glorious. It was the same when the National Socialist movement was fighting 
        for power. As soon as the battle was over and the Führer was in power, 
        the old fighters looked back longingly to the time in which they had fought 
        for power. The times when we worked for the movement, sometimes at the 
        risk of our lives, looked wonderful. Who among us, including many who 
        joined us at 14, 15, or 16 would now want to have missed the National 
        Socialist movement’s struggle for power! How wonderful it is for the boys 
        and girls of that period to look back and remember what they went through, 
        and in a way that proved their worth! It is today their fondest memory.The same will some day be true of this war. When it is over

      and we rejoice in victory, we will remember with pride everything

      we are now going through. We will recall how we worked for victory

      with all our being.It is a good thing for the German youth to fully experience

      these great days. They should do their best for the war, giving

      their courage, their idealism, and their faith.The coming youth film festival should serve these ends. The

      German youth is gathered throughout the Reich for the first program

      of the year 1940/41. These programs will occur at regular intervals,

      and will show the German youth the best work of the German film

      industry. Over the coming winter, they will be entertained, taught

      and built up. Again and again, German boys and girls will gain

      new enthusiasm.We are not like the English plutocrats who teach their young children 
        to wear frock coats and top hats. Anyone who needs to do that later can 
        learn how later. We are teaching our youth what is difficult to learn 
        later, namely attitude and character. The foundations must be laid early 
        in life. Following the Führer’s teaching, we are setting a new ideal 
        for the education of our youth. The Hitler Youth has taken his name. It 
        is the only organization in the Reich that does bear his name. That puts 
        a heavy responsibility on it. Above all, it places on the youth an obligation 
        to imitate the man whose name they bear, and to follow him.The Führer is the shining example for the German youth.

      He demands that during the war they show a proper attitude, character,

      obedience, and discipline. In this sense and according to his

      command, the German youth must live, work, and create.I give my warmest and heartiest greetings to the entire German

      youth, which today is gathered in movie theaters throughout the

      Reich, and declare the Youth Film Festival for 1940/41 has begun. 