 As I speak on Christmas Eve over the radio to the German people, I am 
        the spokesman for the homeland to all our soldiers who are far from home 
        during this war Christmas of 1941. I know that countless people envy my 
        ability to speak over the aether to millions of Germans in many lands and 
        continents. How many men and women, fathers, sons and daughters, wish 
        they could stand in my place and greet their sons, husbands, brothers, 
        or fathers! How many soldiers and Germans abroad wish they could step 
        to the microphone and speak to their mothers, fathers, children, or brothers 
        and sisters.I must today speak for them all. I must extend the greetings

      and deepest wishes from here to there and from there to here.

      I will say little of politics this evening. We all know what

      we Germans have to say about world conditions and the future.

      Everyone knows that we must withstand the storms of the age

      until victory is ours. That has become clear in recent years,

      and I do not need to say anything about it.Instead, I want to talk of the thoughts and feelings that

      move all of us this Christmas Eve. I will speak for half an hour

      as one person to another. We will consider the difficulties

      of the century in which we stand, and look both backwards and

      forwards.There are few presents under the Christmas tree this year. The effects 
        of the war are evident there as well. We have sent our Christmas candles 
        to the Eastern Front, where our soldiers need them more than we do. Rather 
        than producing dolls, castles, lead soldiers, and toy guns, our factories 
        have been producing things essential for the war effort. Our troops are 
        the first priority.But gifts are not the most important thing about Christmas anyway. Since 
        we can no longer celebrate Christmas as generously and wastefully as in 
        the past, perhaps we will remember even more its spiritual nature. Instead 
        of giving outward gifts to our family, friends, and community, today we 
        will express our love to one another and our faith in all that holds us 
        together. We long for a golden bridge to extend to all those whom we love 
        across the distant reaches, countries, oceans, and continents.All eyes look to the homeland. Our soldiers and Germans abroad above
         all have learned how beautiful it is in the past year. That may be why
         they have fought so bravely and loyally for it. They wanted to protect
         it from the horrors of war. All that they left behind when they heeded
         duty’s call they hope to find upon their return just as it was when
         they  left. The war has become a school that has increased the love
         all of us  have for the homeland. Whatever the difficulties of today
         or tomorrow,  the individual finds there the meaning of his devotion,
         his sacrifice,  his bravery. In this third war Christmas, we celebrate
         more spartanly  and more modestly than before, but we are protected
         and guarded against  the threats of our enemies. We must thank those
         who defend us, our sons,  fathers, and brothers, who have learned only
         in distant lands among foreign  peoples how dear their fatherland and
         their people are.The great task demands the same sacrifice from us! The hardest

      demands are on our soldiers. They are spending their third Christmas

      away. The homeland is the center about which all their thoughts

      and wishes circle. Their greatest pride must be that they are

      defending the homeland and protecting it from the fury of war.

      They have learned the terrors of modern warfare, with which they

      are daily surrounded. It is surely worth their great and brave

      exertions to see to it that their village and their Fatherland

      do not meet the same fate as countless villages and cities in

      enemy countries. Think of what would have become of their parents,

      their wives and their children if they had not defended the homeland!

      Each German soldier should remember that. The homeland can only

      be as they imagine, and as they hope to find it upon their return,

      if millions of its fathers and sons defend it.The same is true for all Germans abroad. They often live in an entirely 
        foreign, sometimes hostile, world. It should not surprise us that we are 
        not always loved as we defend our right to life. Envy and distrust, hatred 
        and persecution often surround our fellow countrymen. We read about it 
        occasionally in the newspapers, but they experience it every day. In a 
        tiny minority, they are the targets of propaganda hostile to Germany. 
        They are mocked, harassed, see their houses searched, and are put in prison. 
        Why else would they bear it all with pride and dignity? They love the 
        homeland even more deeply than we, and give their full devotion. For us, 
        speaking German is a matter of course, but they are spat on for it. We 
        read German newspapers every day, they get them months later and pass 
        them from hand to hand as a message from the beloved homeland. We listen 
        to the German radio every night, they tinker for hours with their sets 
        to get a few words from the homeland. We see our German films and newsreels 
        whenever we care to, but they have to gather secretly to watch a copy 
        of a film like “The Western Campaign,” which we have practically 
        forgotten about.They, too, would rather be at home than abroad, but they stay at their 
        post to serve the fatherland. They are not worn down by hatred and suspicion. 
        They are the pioneers of Germandom in the world. They are not out to conquer 
        the world, as our enemies say, but to defend their ethnicity. This Christmas 
        Eve we think of them as well as our soldiers, because we know that Christmas 
        is a deeply German holiday that binds us all together. Perhaps they think 
        today that although their tasks are difficult, they still have it easier 
        than Germans abroad had it during the World War, during which they often 
        learned nothing from the homeland other than what our enemies wanted them 
        to hear. Today, they are at least connected to us by radio. They receive 
        our news and speeches, hear German music and German songs, learn of the 
        heroic battles of our troops. In brief, their imaginations have a bridge 
        that each day carries them back home.And they can be at ease. They will not experience the shame

      of 1918, when the German people’s collapse struck them like a

      numbing blow. Today the homeland knows what is expected of it,

      and is giving its full efforts. They have not deserted us and

      we will not desert them. The homeland would not be worth the

      sacrifices that millions are making for it were it not ever striving

      to be worthy of them. Certainly it is not easy. It must give

      up many familiar habits and accept a thousand large and small

      privations. Those who live in areas being attacked from the air

      have much to bear, and deserve the highest praise and warmest

      recognition.The whole nation is worthy of the great era in which we live. Still, 
        all the burdens of the homeland are but a fraction of the sacrifices, 
        burdens and privations, the actions and the dangers, that our soldiers 
        endure, or of the persecutions that Germans abroad constantly endure. 
        We at home, God knows, have no reason to complain. We have to accept the 
        war’s demands. The war has only made us harder. We will not win by weakness. 
        We must be brave and ever ready. Victory will not be given to us; we have 
        to earn it. Everyone must do his part. Even on this Christmas Eve that 
        must be the focus of our thoughts. The time will come when the war’s demands 
        are past. At a later Christmas, we will look back on this Christmas Eve. 
        In the fond light of memory, none of us will wish we had missed it. All 
        the dead of the war will stand as shining heroes before our eyes, those 
        who gave their lives to win a better life for their nation.There is probably no one among us who in this hour does not look up to 
        heaven. The war has taught us not only be to strong against our enemies, 
        but also to accept our fate and the will of its godly ruler. We thank 
        the Almighty for the proud victories that he again has given us. We will 
        continue fighting until total victory is ours.Our time together has come to an end. Our soldiers sit together

      and talk of home. At home we think only of them, and speak in

      spirit with them. Germans abroad think once more of the great

      Reich of the Germans. Then we will all return to the troubles

      and difficulties, burdens, sacrifices, and privations of everyday

      life. We may never forget that we all have a responsibility,

      each in his own way, to work and fight for a rapid victory.We keep our eye fixed on it. We do not doubt it for a minute.

      In thinking of the Führer, who on this evening, too, is everywhere

      where Germans gather, we are reminded of the Fatherland. It will

      be larger, more beautiful, more prosperous after the war is over.

      It will be a proud and free homeland for us all. We want to thank

      the Führer for that. He can depend on his people at the

      front, at home, and in the wide world. He leads us, and we follow

      him. Without a shadow of doubt, we follow him bearing the flag

      and the Reich. The flag and the Reich shall be pure and unstained

      when the great hour of victory comes.I greet you from the depths of my heart. Earlier we sang of

      peace on earth in our songs. Now the time has come to fight for

      it. Peace through victory! That is our slogan.May my words bring a scent of the homeland far to the East and the West,
         to the front against Bolshevism, to North Africa’s deserts, to the seas
          where our submarines and warships sail, to the most distant nations
         and  continents and the farthest corner of the earth where a German
         heart still  beats, but also to the homeland itself, to the cities and
         the countryside,  to every hut and every home. 