 by Joseph Goebbels My fellow German citizens!My goal is not to add a bitter taste to the holiday’s festive glass of 
        cheer. I believe that every level and class of the German people has reason 
        to celebrate today with confidence. And there is no reason to be moderate. 
        We Germans over the last 20 years have had too much pain, sorrow, and 
        disappointment to run the risk of overdoing our celebration. A bit of 
        pain is behind all our joy, and the cheer with which we look back on the 
        past year and forward to the coming one is filled with earnestness and 
        proud manliness.But now we raise our hearts and see with satisfaction that a year of 
        success is behind us, and that the blessing of heaven has fallen on the 
        German people. Our whole hearts rejoice. It is a kind of joy that looks 
        back with pride on what has been accomplished, and that gives strength 
        for new plans and decisions. The powerful movement that has seized the 
        entire German people in the past year is a movement of life that is filled 
        with a firm and faithful optimism that gives endurance and strength. We 
        Germans have once more learned to love life in all its splendor. We affirm 
        it and accept all its demands, even if they be hard and pitiless. National 
        Socialism affirms life, it does not deny it. We draw from it the joyful 
        strength that so wonderfully fills us in the last hours of the passing 
        year.No one is left out. It fills the festive streets of the great

      cities and the lonely alleys and paths of our German villages.

      It fills huts and palaces, the rich and the poor. It fills the

      heart of the lonely wanderer who greets the new year in the snow-capped

      and towering mountains, or those who are part of the crowds on

      Berlin’s Unter den Linden. It was a blessed year. The German

      people found themselves once more, and regained a hope that lets

      them look confidently into the coming year.What a difference from the New Year’s Eve of a year ago. Then the Reich 
        stood before the abyss. The people were torn by hatred and civil war. 
        The parties and the government lacked the strength even to recognize the 
        catastrophe, much less to deal with it. Collapse and desperation were 
        rising wherever one looked, and the specter of Bolshevism was everywhere. 
        But today? The Reich is once more strong and powerful, the people more 
        united and firm than ever before, led by a strong hand who is dealing 
        with the problems we face. Where once there was hopelessness and despair, 
        today a whole nation is filled with faithful devotion.A year of unprecedented victories and triumphs is behind us.

      What twelve months ago seemed the product of an overactive imagination

      has become reality. The flags of national renewal fly over the

      Reich, and a revolution of vast extent has captured the German

      people and given them back their true nature.There were probably only a few last 30 January, when the great transformation 
        began, who imagined that a new era of German history was beginning, and 
        that within a year the revolution would be over. Remember 21 March, 1 
        May, the unforgettable days in Nuremberg, 1 October, and 12 November. 
        A wonderful transformation unified the nation, one that future generations 
        will scarcely be able to comprehend. They will judge the year 1933. It 
        will go down in history as the year the German nation finally broke free 
        of its two thousand years of misery.What an astonishing collection of significant political, cultural

      and economic events mark this year of German awakening! It finally

      destroyed the Marxist nonsense that had tortured the German people

      for six decades, condemning them to political impotence. Only

      a year ago it threatened the Reich, ready at any moment to seize

      power. Today we know of it only through stories. It was replaced

      by the idea of a true community of the people that was not the

      empty theory of a meeting hall, but rather step by step and piece

      by piece became a total and happy reality. The socialism that

      we preached for years found its living expression in the active

      participation of all Germans, perhaps the most wonderful and

      exciting event of the past year.Twelve months ago the parties carried on their nonsense in

      the parliaments, government crisis followed crisis, and the fate

      of the Reich was determined by special interests that used the

      holy idea of Germany only for their party’s benefit. This contemptible

      parliamentarianism, whose only Christmas gift to the people was

      the collapse of a cabinet, is gone. The German people overwhelmingly

      has affirmed one man and one idea. A movement fully aware of

      its responsibility governs the Reich.The people itself, however, could not support the new

      regime any more strongly than it does. People, state and nation

      have become one, and the strong will of the Führer is over

      us all. The eternal quarreling particularism that threatened

      the Reich has been overthrown. Germany once more stands before

      the world as an unshakable unity, and no one inside our outside

      of our borders is able to damage the interests of the German

      nation by using some kind of group within the Reich.This political foundation had to be established if the government

      had any intention of dealing with the big problems of the day,

      if it was to do everything possible to deal with the specter

      of unemployment. The government had not only the intention to

      do something, it acted. It attacked unemployment with impressive

      measures. With God’s help, it was able to do even more than it

      promised: over two million people are at work again, and even

      the hard winter did not slow us down. The entire world admires

      this accomplishment of the German people, gained by our will

      and toughness. The world is just as astonished as it watches

      the German people fight hunger and cold; the first half of the

      battle has already been won. It fills us with pride that in this

      first National Socialist winter no one, however poor and needy,

      has been left alone, that none of us, no matter how heavy our

      burdens, has gone uncared for through winter’s cold months, that

      we have done our duty and need not fear anyone’s gaze.Is it any wonder that courage, confidence and optimism in

      growing measure fill the German people? Is not the flame of a

      new faith rising in the people from this sacrificial readiness?

      This people is noble, brave, generous, willing, and full of devotion

      under the care of a strong hand, and it may rightly believe that

      it is spotless and pure, and that it has the blessing of God.Is there any reason to doubt that we will return this people

      to its just place among the nations of the world? We have had

      the courage to break with the unacceptable methods of international

      post-war diplomacy and claim the absolute right of the German

      nation to national honor and equality. We knew from the beginning

      that it would take a tough battle. Today we think we can say

      that we will win if we keep our nerve.The year 1933 ends under this happy sign. With nostalgia we

      look back once again. It was a proud and manly year. It was a

      year of beginning and renewal, the first since the end of the

      war of which we can say that it ended for Germany better than

      it had begun.As always, we stand at the helm even more firmly after the

      battle. The new year is before us, with its new challenges and

      tasks. Nothing will be given to us; we will have to seize it.

      Hard and challenging problems await us. We will need all our

      strength and intelligence to hold the ground that we have won,

      to increase it, to build on it, for only from it can we make

      the leap to new territory.The comradeship of the people that has begun in so wonderful

      a way is not something that has found eternal root in German

      hearts. It is the foundation from which we will find the strength

      to bring a victorious end to coming battle against hunger and

      cold, and then to begin in the spring a second great campaign

      against the unemployment that we will eliminate in the coming

      year.A major political problem in the coming year will be to give

      a new and organic structure to the Reich. Based on the firm ground

      of tradition, a reform must be implemented that will give the

      same unity to the Reich as to the people. The National Socialist

      idea and movement will fill both people and state for all time.

      Then we will be able to view our foreign problems with calmness.

      The people and nation stand on firm ground. No power on earth

      can split them apart.The tasks before us are large and difficult, almost discouragingly

      so. Only our strong and fanatic faith will give us the strength

      to solve them. If the German people stay united and work together,

      it will master fate and build a new future. Peoples never lose

      because of inadequate weapons, only through a lack of self- confidence

      and will.Let us then stand together and enter the new year with courage.

      The whole people should be confident of the government’s thanks.

      Each of us is proud that we serve the people in a high position.

      We are all members of the people, we express its spirit and its

      will. The lowliest of our people is dearer to us than the king

      of another nation. And we would rather be the lowliest citizen

      of our nation than the king of another.This nation has displayed remarkable heroism both during the

      war and thereafter. Covered with scars, it has recovered from

      the blows dealt us by fate. It lives once more and will live

      as long as we faithfully affirm its life.No one has the right to become weary. Everyone is needed,

      each in his place. We know full well how much need remains in

      Germany, but we will never surrender to it. We do not stick our

      head in the sand, but rather we raise it high and offer it to fate.No one should lose courage. Only he who thinks he is lost

      is lost.In these last hours of the year, we join in humble thanks to the great 
        God who gave us the gift of doing our work loyally and industriously. 
        We ask his blessings for the coming year, and promise that we will not 
        be unworthy of his blessings.The year of revolution is over. The year of construction is

      beginning.We give our respectful greeting to the General Field Marshall and Reich 
        President I wish a happy New Year, filled with struggle and victory,

      to all good Germans at home and to our brothers on the other

      side of the border.We will not fail if we have the courage to be stronger than the misery 
        that once defeated Germany. 