 Internal German morale reports found that the speech was effective: “The general conclusion is that people have new courage  and are more optimistic.” However, some people felt that German chances for victory were significantly less than in the past, and that fine talk was nice, but they wanted to see action. Goebbels has this to say about the speech in his diary entry of 6 June 
        1943:“The meeting in the Sportpalast was at 4 p.m. The mood cannot 
          be compared to that of 18 February The text of Speer’s speech is available The winter crisis is over. We may at times during the gray preceding
         months have looked at the situation with a grim expression, but we never
         resigned ourselves to the blows of fate. The opposite. With unprecedented
         exertions, the leadership and the people fought against them. Quietly
         and without much ado, great things have been accomplished. 
        The enemy’s war of nerves is having no effect on us. In November 1918
         the German people fell prey to the tricks of its enemy. We learned from
         the hard results of our moral failure. (Loud agreement accompanies the
         minister’s words.) Our opponent then promised us peace, freedom, happiness,
          and prosperity. They told us that they, too, had raised the red flags
          over their ships and trenches. As the German people followed the urgings
          of Jewish criminals and lowered their flags, the then British Prime
         Minister  Lloyd George said cynically: “Now we have them. We can
         do what we  want to them!”Such a tragedy happened once in German history. It will never happen
         again. It will not happen this time because we know what is going on,
         and we hold all the elements for a truly decisive victory in our hands.
         They cannot defeat us with lies and promises. That was only possible
        through  force. But we are using force against force. (Jubilant agreement.)
        The  leadership, the people, and the front are of one opinion. We have
        no workers  who want to strike, and above all no Jewish rabble-rousers
        who might mislead  them into it! (Long-lasting, thundering applause.)
        We are a people at  arms, determined to defend our honor and our territory
        to the last breath.  There is no group in Germany that would be ready
        to work with the enemy.  Should an individual have such criminal intentions,
        he will be rendered  harmless as soon as he is noticed. (Jubilant agreement
        and applause.)  We have obligations to the dead as well as to the living,
        to the soldiers  at the front and also you workers in the homeland. He
        who threatens the  security of the German nation will risk his own life.
        The laws of war  are harsh. Millions of German soldiers today have to
        be ready to die on  the battlefield for their people. We would not deserve
        to lead this nation  if we tolerated to any degree whatsoever any threat
        to the homeland.Our people are fulfilling their war duties as one would expect. Naturally 
        the war is harder in its fourth year than it was in its first. No one 
        in Germany, by the way, wanted or welcomed the war. That is not at issue. 
        What the Philistine calls mood is not a decisive military factor. The 
        wounds inflicted on all the combatant peoples in this drama of nations 
        are sometimes very painful. The bloom of our youth is in battle. They 
        must bring the hardest sacrifice of blood, just as do those who live in 
        the areas suffering from bombing attacks. Through his brutal and cynical 
        methods, the enemy is giving us a foretaste of what he has prepared for 
        us should we prove weak.Even in England the foolish talk of an “exciting war” has
        stopped,  and one prefers not to be reminded of it. Given the anguish
        this world-wide  struggle has brought to all the nations, even those
        not involved, who  dares to speak of a superficial patriotism! Mood belongs
        at a family gathering  or a springtime excursion. The war demands of
        every nation a manly attitude.  Soldiers show this attitude. They are
        in the fourth year of difficult  conditions, or in almost their third
        year in the barbaric East, fulfilling  their hard duty, risking their
        lives a thousand times when the situation  demands. They have given up
        vacations, a normal life, comfort, and the  quiet of home to defend the
        life and freedom of the nation. Workers and  farmers, too, display the
        correct attitude. They do not think of escaping the hard duties of the
        war. Millions of women and mothers display it. They protect and care
        for their families and free their men for the front by standing by the
        machine or behind the plow. They do not complain, even give birth to
        children in the midst of it all to guarantee the life of their nation.
        That all demands more than mood, which is changeable. It is one thing
        today, something different tomorrow.What can I say to praise the hard-tested population in the areas affected 
        by the air war! They resist the effects of criminal enemy bombing terror 
        with unprecedented heroism. Overnight families lose all that they have, 
        sometimes the father, sometimes the mother, sometimes their growing children. 
        They stand before the smoking ruins of their house or apartment for which 
        they have worked and saved their entire lives. How can they be consoled 
        by the thought that their heavy sacrifice is necessary if their people 
        and nation is to live, that however bitter their fate may be, it must 
        be endured. Only an attitude that withstands all the bitterness of their 
        sorrow gives them the strength to go on. Perhaps the Jewish press in London 
        and Washington brings a mood to the war that is lacking in the German 
        people. That is because they never suffer themselves. The mood of their 
        racial comrades in Germany is probably different than theirs. That is 
        because the war that they helped to bring about is having its impact on 
        them as well. One can disagree about the mood of the combatant peoples 
        in this fourth year of war. There is no doubt that the National Socialist 
        attitude has remained firm. We Germans are doing our duty, fighting and 
        working with unprecedented fanaticism, and securing thereby the foundations 
        for our coming victory. It will not be given to us. We can only earn it 
        though great national sacrifice by all of us.Every attempt by the enemy to seduce the German people fails

      to overcome this National Socialist attitude. It gives us the

      strength to bear all the problems any war brings with patient

      and dogged pride, be they defeats, twists of fate, increased

      demands, heavy sacrifices, and so on. We do not only speak of

      peace, we fight for it. We are doing everything in our power

      to keep fighting until the enemy sinks to the earth. (The masses

      show their agreement and unshakable confidence in victory by

      lively applause.) That is the foundation and goal of our whole

      war policy. We will not permit conditions to develop that would

      keep us from being ready for the final decisive fifteen minutes.

      We view things from a deeper and broader perspective, doing what it takes

      to continue the war. That may lead to measures that are here

      or there unpopular, but they are necessary for a successful end

      to the war. That applies above all to the food situation.The unusually harsh winter of 1941/42 led to enormous losses of grain, 
        to a total loss of winter oil fruits, and major reductions in the potato 
        and vegetable crops. As a result, about 1.7 million tons of grain intended 
        for animal feed had to be used for bread. The meat ration had to be increased 
        in fall 1942 to make up for major reductions in other foodstuffs. That 
        had a major impact on animal stock. The 1943 harvest was a good one. Potatoes 
        and vegetables are also in better supply. It was necessary to do something 
        about the animal population to avoid serious problems later. A reduction 
        in the meat ration by 100 grams per person a week was unavoidable. We 
        were able to make small adjustments in the fat and bread rations. It is, 
        of course, not possible to replace 100 grams of meat per person a week 
        with egg whites. But we had no choice. Our food policy takes the long 
        view. It uses what we have carefully. It makes sure that the existing 
        rations can be supplied, and that we never find ourselves in the situation 
        where food shortages make a continuation of the war impossible.Everyone understands and approves, even if the result is a temporary 
        reduction. One may not forget that millions of foreign workers are involved 
        in our domestic production, and they must eat if they are to work, and 
        that many hundreds of thousands, we are proud to say, have followed the 
        flag. That all impacts the food situation, but it also increases our military 
        strength.We at least know why we in the homeland have to make these sacrifices.
         They seem to me more than bearable, especially given the sacrifices
        those  in the areas subject to bombing attacks have been enduring nearly
        every  night. Our enemies are attacking  all they have with brutal
        cynicism, hoping to destroy their morale. They admit that openly. The
        German cultural monuments that they are destroying will be their eternal
        shame. But they want more than that. They are waging war against the
        morale of our people, destroying civilian life, killing old people,
        women, and children, and they do not even bother to cloak their infamous
        bloody terror. (The minister’s remarks 
        draw repeated shouts of pfui and disgust.) The Church of England declared
         a few days ago that bombs do not distinguish between men, women, and
        children.  Even this seems mild when compared to the demonic hatred and
        triumph in  the London Jewish papers. We Germans are not the sort of
        people who beg  for mercy from an enemy who is out to destroy us. We
        know that there is  only one effective answer to British-American bombing
        terror: counter-terror.  (The masses have listed intensely to the minister’s
        words. Now they break  into spontaneous, long-lasting, and repeated stormy
        applause.)The entire German nation is filled with but one thought: to repay like 
        with like. (Again there is a storm of enthusiasm.) We do not boast or 
        threaten. We only take notice. Each English voice today that finds the 
        bombing war against German women, old people, and children to be a humane 
        or even Christian method to defeat the German people will one day give 
        us welcome grounds for our answer to these crimes. (Repeated applause 
        affirms the minister’s comments.) The British people have no reason to 
        triumph. They will have to pay the bill for the actions of their leaders, 
        who are carrying out the orders of their Jewish masters and rabble-rousers.Until then, we must seek to endure the sometimes difficult consequences 
        of British-American air terror. We must allow these crimes to wash over 
        us with dogged toughness. It is a part of war, and on the success with 
        which our nation bears it depends to a great degree the coming victory.I have recently been in the threatened areas in the west and northwest
         to see things for myself. The average citizen in the Reich has no idea
         what people there must endure, under what primitive conditions they
        must  reestablish their shattered lives, what high morale and attitude
        they  still display. He who still thinks he has the right to complain
        about  this or that inconvenience of the war should turn his gaze to
        Essen, Dortmund,  Bochum, Wuppertal, or the other cities in the region
        and blush with shame  that he even dares compare his troubles and complaints
        with the suffering  of the population there. (The stormy applause of
        the masses expresses  their sympathy and pride at the courageous attitude
        of the population  in the air raid districts.) If anyone has the right
        to complain, it is  those in the west and northwest. They do not do so.
        They fight with astonishing  strength of spirit and fanatic determination
        against fire and devastation.  On nights of bombing, men, women, and
        children stand guard, protecting  insofar as it is possible their homes
        and belongings, displaying miracles  of bravery against which in the
        end British-American terror will shatter.  (Shouts of Bravo!, and long-lasting
        applause.) Each scientist and researcher  who work against enemy war
        technology, each worker and engineer building  our new bombers, each
        young pilot who studies from morning to late at  night to one day attack
        the enemy criminals, may each of them keep this  part of our people before
        his eyes and work untiringly to speed the  hour of revenge. (Jubilant
        agreement interrupts the minister. There are passionate expressions of
        glowing hatred against the murderous terror sown by the British-Americans.)I speak as a son of my West German homeland to all Germans, but above
        all to my own people. I know what you have had to bear in recent weeks.
        I also know that whatever sorrow may befall you personally or to our
        homeland, you will maintain the proper attitude. We who live on the border
        have always had a hard time of it. Just as we did not bow after the First
        World War to enemy occupation nor to the separatism they encouraged,
        so also our cities and villages will never bow to the British bombing
        terror. The enemy can bomb our houses to rubble. The hearts of the people
        will burn with a hatred that cannot be extinguished. The hour of revenge
        will come. (Strong applause.) After the war, it will be the duty of the
        entire nation to reward their heroism by rebuilding their houses and
        cities more beautifully than before. Life will flourish once more, and
        far into the future children and children’s children will speak of the courageous endurance 
        of their fathers and mothers, who through their heroism will have won 
        unfading wreaths for the coats of arms of their proud cities.The English are using the air war against us. We are using

      submarines against them. The results of the air war are more

      visible, but the submarine campaign is more important to the

      war in the long run, since its wounds are deeper. Through May

      of this year, 26.5 million BRT of enemy shipping have been sunk

      by the German navy and Luftwaffe. The significance of that figure

      is clear when one remembers that German submarine warfare nearly

      brought England to the ground in 1917 and 1918 while sinking

      only about 12 million BRT.Of course, the English admitted that only after the war; during the war 
        they, along with the Americans, boasted just as today about their new 
        construction and cast doubt on our statistics. Whatever new ships the 
        enemy may launch, they cannot replace what we have sunk. Also, the supplies 
        and work force that go into constructing ships cannot be used for other 
        war production. And his work force, the foundation of war production, 
        does not compare with ours. They only thing the enemy may do better at 
        than we is boast. Even trees in America do not grow up to heaven. We have 
        every reason to disregard the enemy’s fantasy statistics. We do not entirely 
        ignore them, but either do we overestimate their importance.The nature of combat on sea is changeable. Periods of great success
        are  followed by periods of defeat, depending on the state of our attacking
         forces on the one hand and the enemy’s defensive abilities on the other.
          The battle is being fought not only on the oceans, in the air, or on
         the  battlefields, but also in scientific institutes and laboratories.
         Every  new method of attack is in time followed by a new method of defense,
         and  each new defensive technique provokes a new method of attack. That
         is  especially true in a life and death struggle, the submarine war,
         for example.  The periods of greatest success by our submarines have
         been followed by  periods of less success. But the enemy always boasts
         too soon when he  thinks he has finally won. He has often enough declared
         the submarine  danger over, only to be persuaded in short order of the
         contrary. He really  has every reason to be cautious in his predictions.
         For example, we sank  629,000 tons in October 1940, but only 203,000
         in January 1941. Three  months later in April 1941, the figure was 1,000,211
         BRT of enemy shipping.  Then, too, the British Admiralty first boasted
         as the statistics fell,  but three months later the English public was
         again in a panic.The struggle at sea is hard and dangerous. It is fought with growing
         mercilessness by both sides. Our submarine crews know how important
        their work is to the war. In the end, the balance of fate will tip in
        our direction. Over the long run the enemy must expect devastating losses.
        His supply routes will be cut again, destroying his chance of success.
        A war of such scale is not measured in centimeters.This much we know: the German people can be confident. Its vast efforts
         for total war have not been in vain. They will be used one day. (Stormy
         shouts of Bravo!) Our enemies can wonder when and how. They may believe
         that the initiative has shifted permanently to them and that Germany’s
          leadership is waiting with fear and trembling for their actions. The
         future,  however, will decide who should be anxious. We are waiting,
         but in a different  way than the enemy believes.They speak of the invasion of Europe as if that were the most

      obvious thing in the world. The Jews want the invasion most of

      all, presumably since none of them will be involved. They will

      be playing the battle songs. The American and British soldiers

      will have to pay the bloody tab. Our army is waiting for them.

      (Jubilant agreement and shouts of Bravo!) Dunkirk and Dieppe

      are warnings against a British-American invasion. Roane Waring,

      the commander of the American Legion, recently returned from

      a trip to North Africa. He said: “The American forces have

      suffered terrible losses. The losses are far more than what Eisenhower

      has admitted, and worse is ahead. Tunis is only a foretaste of

      what is waiting for us in Europe.”The British military observer Cyrill Falls adds the following warning: 
        “I want to warn against underestimation. There will be bloody battles
         once the Allied forces run against Axis fortifications. Europe will
        not  be conquered quickly. We must not make the mistake of underestimating
         the fortifications in France, Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Norway, Italy,
         and in the Southeast. We must realize that attacking them will cost
        us  much in blood and tears.”The Jews are pressing for those tears to play out the bloody

      drama to its end. Churchill and Roosevelt are only their tools.Perhaps one or two super-objectivists will think my characterization
         of the enemy leaders too crass, but I am saying what I mean. What else
         can one say about those who on the one hand speak of freedom from want
         and fear, but on the other shoot 12,000 Polish officers through the
        neck  in the Forest of Katyn. On the one hand they sing “Onward
        Christian  Soldiers,” while on the other they burn down churches.
        On the one  hand they claim to be fighting for the sovereignty of the
        small states,  but on they other they want to plunge them into Bolshevist
        chaos. On the  one hand they represent the crassest form of capitalism,
        on the other  the crassest collectivism. So many statements, so many
        contradictions!  How can one reconcile them without concluding that we
        are dealing with  a band of crooks who are striving for world domination,
        and who want to  subject Europe to Jewish world rule? The only reason
        they went to war  against us is because we were the last bastion in the
        way of their infernal  Jewish-plutocratic-Bolshevist goals. They rule
        vast and rich empires,  but have proven themselves unable to organize
        them and use their peoples  effectively. They reach for war to rule poor
        nations and take from them  the little they do possess. This is a criminal
        conspiracy. Either we will  defeat it, or decent and productive humanity
        will be destroyed.It does the enemy coalition no good to attempt to conceal these matters.
         The Soviets may abolish the Comintern, but they remain wolves in sheep’s
          clothing. The plutocrats may permit their hired newspapers to discuss
          plans for social reform, but the expert sees behind all the talk the
         merciless  face of Jewish world capitalism that is seeking to seduce
         and drug the nations of Europe. One will have to doubt the justice of
         the universe and the meaning of history if we do not withstand the enemy.
         It is all to clear why their criminal leaders are trying to conceal
         their blood guilt, now that the nations are beginning to awaken. Using
         the tested Jewish method, they shout: “The victim is guilty, not
         the murderer!” 
        They fill the world with hypocritical lamentations and toss out their
         old views and convictions, the intellectual documents of a declining
        world,  whenever they become a nuisance. They present themselves to an
        astonished  world as great reformers out to improve the world, they who
        always opposed  any reasonable new order in the world, indeed launched
        a war to hinder  it!We are flattered that we have forced the Soviets to at least outwardly
         dissolve the Comintern, that instrument for world destruction. But the
         Jews in London and Washington are gloating too soon if they think that
         will stop National Socialism’s educational work. A lying peace of paper
          cannot undo a practice that has raped, tortured, starved, and murdered
          countless millions of human victims. Bolshevism’s tactical move is
          only  another reason for us to reveal to the world its planned crimes.
          It may  take years, as it did during our struggle for power, until
          their terrible plot  fails.People are increasingly recognizing the work of the Jews around the
        world.  It does them no good to use parliaments and courts to protect
        their parasitic  existence. It will not be long before the whole world
        cries out against  those guilty of causing this terrible drama between
        nations. We want to  be sure that the questions are answered. (Long-lasting
        applause.) In the  Fifteenth Protocol of the Elders of Zion it is written: “When
        the  king of the Jews receives the crown upon his holy head that Europe
        will  offer him, he will become the patriarch of the entire world.” The
         Jews have often been near that triumph, just as they believe they are
         today. But always before they fell from the heights to the depths. This
         time, too, Lucifer will fall. (The minister’s statement is received
         with  renewed stormy approval.) Our Europe will offer them not a crown,
         but  the mailed fist (Applause.) The Jew will not be the patriarch of
         the world,  but rather the leper, the scum, the victim of his own criminal
         desires,  who will break against our strength and our knowledge. (Renewed
         stormy  applause.)In the face of this danger to the world, sentimentality is out of place.
         It may be that some do not understand the importance of the Jewish Question,
         but that will not stop us. Ridding all Europe of Jewry is not a matter
         of morality, but rather a question of  international security. The
         Jew will always act consistently with his nature and racial instincts.
         He cannot do otherwise. Just like a potato beetle destroys potatoes,
        the  Jew destroys nations and peoples. There is only one solution: to
        deal  radically with the danger. (Agreement and shouts from the crowd.)
        Wherever  one looks among our enemies, one sees Jew after Jew. Jews are
        behind Roosevelt  in his brain trust, Jews are behind Churchill as his
        prompters. Jews are  the rabble-rousers behind the entire English-American-Soviet
        press. Jews  hidden in the Kremlin are the real bearers of Bolshevism.
        The International  Jew is the mortar that holds the enemy coalition together.
        With his world-spanning  connections, he builds the bridges between Moscow,
        London, and Washington.  The war is his doing, he directs it from the
        shadows, and he will be its  only beneficiary.We are facing the most dangerous enemy in the world. He is not unbeatable. 
        Just as we defeated him within Germany, we will break his power, which 
        now threatens us from abroad. (Lively applause.) He is resorting to bloodthirsty 
        fantasies of revenge. That is good, for he is only showing his true face. 
        A few days ago one of its most prominent representatives announced a new 
        White House peace plan. It includes: “The complete occupation of 
        Germany and its rule by an Anglo-Bolshevist-American military government. 
        A takeover of the entire German administration, a complete dissolution 
        of German industry, and sending all German troops for an undetermined 
        period as workers in the occupied territories, especially Siberia. Germany 
        may never again become a strong power. After the most spartan food supply 
        is left for the German people, the remaining agricultural products will 
        be sent to the enemy powers. Germany may not remain a unified nation. 
        Education toward a German national consciousness will be banned. The products 
        of German industry should benefit the German people only to the extent 
        necessary for them to feed themselves.”Is there anyone in Germany who pays any heed to this program?

      It reflects precisely what the Jews in the Kremlin have planned

      for us. We know that. No one has any illusions.Even the small group of super-objectivists must now be clear that the
         hour has come. Today’s Germany otherwise has no use for them. Our dead
         have left obligations for us, and we the living are under obligation
        to  do their will. Anyone who doubts victory has no right to be part
        of our  community. (Stormy applause from the crowd testifies that thousands
        agree  that Dr. Goebbels has expressed what we all think.) Whoever pays
        attention  to what the enemy says is a traitor to our cause. (Growing
        applause.)  Who harms our war efforts by passing on enemy rumors sins
        against our  people, for which hundreds of thousands of soldiers have
        died heroic deaths.  We must take immediate action against these talkative
        chaps. (Lively agreement  and shouts of “Right!”) There may
        only be a few of them, but  the enemy thinks he can use them. We want
        to live in a clean war atmosphere.  Our people demand that mentally ill
        world apostles, even if they act unintentionally  and are a laughable
        minority, go to jail.Lloyd George, the British prime minister during the First World War, 
        wrote in his memoirs: “ If Germany had had a leader of the stature 
        of Bismarck or Moltke instead of Bethmann-Hollweg and Falkenhayn, the 
        outcome of the great battle between the military autocracies and the democracies 
        would in all likelihood have been different. Germany’s mistakes rescued 
        us from the results of our own mistakes.”We now have the strong national leadership that we lacked then. (These 
        words lead the crowd to express enthusiastically its admiration and confidence 
        in the Führer.) It knows what to do to ensure that the current British 
        prime minister will not be able to say the same thing about the German 
        people at the end of this war.Rumors and loose talk fade before the war’s hard realities. It will
        be  decided by powerful weapons and strong hearts. The German people
        possess these in full measure. They need only be used. True and loyal
        allies, the Axis nations, stand at our side. They, too, are fighting
        for their lives. Nearly all of Europe is working to support our war effort.
        The fruits of our common fighting and industry will one day come. After
        victory,  our part of the world will be a powerful continental community
        comprised  of free peoples who have devoted themselves to a great common
        cause. That  is the only way Europe can continue to live. Otherwise,
        it will fall apart  and become easy prey for anarchy and Bolshevism.
        No real European can  want that.I am nearly finished. Today more than ever before, the German people
         in this war have been given a great historical opportunity. Each of
        us  more than ever has the duty to use this opportunity for his life
        and the  lives of his children. The nation will prove worthy of the great
        hour  and earn its proudest victory. But it will not be given to us;
        it can  be earned only by steady determination in battle and work. No
        one knows  better than we how hard it is and how many bitter sacrifices
        it demands.  But our future will be still harder and more bitter if we
        do not meet  the challenge. Every war brings its trials. Only then can
        a nation display  its toughness and its historical stature. No power
        on earth can spare  us the trial; it is sent by Fate itself and must
        be withstood, for there  is no other way. After a great trial, the weather
        clears up, as the great  Prussian king once said, and the skies are once
        more bright. We have experienced  that ourselves too often during the
        war to forget it now. What remains  is manly courage that accepts the
        blows of fate, and in the end withstands  them.Unlike the enemy coalition, the German people have the good fortune to 
        have a clear worldview. We do not need to disregard our program to meet 
        the demands of the war. To the contrary, it is affirmed by those demands. 
        Once we have mastered this war, a new era of German growth , German socialism 
        and German national strength will come.The great teachings of the party gained over our fourteen year struggle 
        for power are today the guiding star of the whole nation in this world 
        struggle. Their continuing power gives the nation strength for the tests 
        of the war. If Germany stays united and marches to the rhythm of its revolutionary 
        socialist outlook, it will be unbeatable. Our indestructable will to life, 
        and the driving force of the Führer’s personality guarantee this. 
        (Stormy, jubilant agreement; thundering applause for several minutes testifies 
        to the admiration of the Führer.)We still cannot measure what it means to have a man at the

      head of the nation who incorporates the will to live and the

      confidence in victory of the whole people. We lost the World

      War above all because we lacked such a great leading personality.

      We will win this war because this time he is there. (Renewed

      enthusiastic agreement.) Our chances of winning today are far

      greater than they were then, yet the British prime minister believes

      we would have won that war had we had strong national leadership.Today

      we have it. What more do we need to believe in victory! Every

      mishap of war only strengthens our faith. In the midst of the

      war’s ups and downs, we turn our gaze to the Führer to restore

      our strength. We cannot be defeated, unless we defeat ourselves.

      But the German people are far from such suicidal behavior today.

      The enemy may attack our nerve with tricks, deviousness, and evil.

      No one will do him the favor of weakening. He will have to resort

      to weapons, and our soldiers will give the proper response on

      the battlefield.Germany and its allies are facing the most infernal plot against

      the freedom of humanity that history has ever known. We need

      not fear its threats. We face it with our heads held high. It

      will fall under the blows of the German sword, as often as it

      may be necessary. They enemy will receive no mercy. Let us eliminate

      all weakness of heart, all pity, all good-natured gullibility.

      The German nation is forced to defend its very life. It will

      fight wherever there is opportunity. Victory is waiting at the

      end.Our enemy does not believe it. We will prove it to them. (When the minister 
        had concluded, a unending and thundering storm of applause began. The 
        masses sprang up and applauded the minister stormily.) 