 A sad and moving occasion brings me back today to the city

      of my youth. I stand here as the representative of the Führer

      and of the entire German people to bid farewell to the dead of

      Wuppertal, victims in the ruins left by British air terror. Before

      the front and the homeland, I bow with pride and sorrow to

      the civilian dead who paid for their loyalty to the Reich with

      their lives. This moving ceremony is particularly sad for me,

      since it affects a city in which I spent the best years of my

      political struggle.Countless proud memories bind me to this city, its people,

      and the entire province of Rhineland-Westphalia. I speak to you

      as a son of this land blessed in peace, praised in songs, a land

      that whatever fate befell it never lost its ties to the homeland.

      I lived and worked here for many years. The roots of my public

      work are here. A group of loyal National Socialists formed around

      me here in 1924, 1925, and 1926. From here we carried the banner

      of the National Socialist revolution deep into the Rhineland

      and the Ruhr. It is our common homeland, before whose dead we

      bow in this hour.I return today to bid farewell to the dead of this city. Among them are 
        many people dear to me, with whom I have passed countless hours of joy 
        and pleasure, but also sorrow and disappointment in the eternal struggle 
        for the Reich. I have the right to speak not only as the Führer’s 
        delegate and not only as the representative of the German people, but 
        also in the name of the hard-tested people of this beautiful province. 
        I express the feelings of sorrow and proud bitterness that move the heart 
        of every German. The pain and sorrow shared by so many families in the 
        areas affected by the bombing attacks are a part of the sorrow and pain 
        of the entire German people. In the past we shared the pleasures of the 
        proud resurrection of our national life. Today we share in brotherhood 
        the pain and sorrows that the war brings to so many German families.I stand amidst you, my Rhineland-Westphalian fellow citizens, to say
         that this province is not fighting alone at some lost position. The
        entire  German people is with you, and surrounds you with love and loyalty.
        With  proud admiration the nation watches the tough, bitter endurance
        of this  part of our people in the face of enemy air terror. The enemy
        may leave  cities and villages in soot and ashes, but can never break
        the human heart.  The enormous sorrows and burdens, pain and tortures,
        that are laid on the  shoulders of this population are part of the larger
        war. It is the duty  of the German nation to take upon itself as many
        as it can as fast as  it can. What can be done to ease your material
        difficulties is being done.  The Reich government is doing all it can,
        in cooperation with the local  party and government offices, to bring
        help. The enemy may have left your  houses and apartments in ruins. You
        can be sure that when victory has  been won, the entire German people
        will bring to bear its enormous strength  to rebuild the destroyed villages
        and cities of this province and make  them more beautiful than they were
        before. New life will spring from the  ruins around us. That which has
        been destroyed will be rebuilt, but now  we must do everything possible
        to enable life to go on, even if under  primitive conditions. All the
        damage cannot be repaired. We cannot bring  the dead back to life. They
        have fallen on the field of honor while fighting  for Germany’s freedom
        and greatness, just as the soldiers at the front.  Whether man, woman,
        or child, they were victims of a cynical enemy that  is trying to win
        by evil and perfidious air terror what he is unable to  do by force of
        arms: to break our people’s morale. I do not need to talk  about that.
        We all know what this war is about. The enemy himself has  told us often
        enough that, if we are weak, we will have a peace compared  to which
        war is a blessing. They are about an insidious attempt to exterminate
         the greatest and proudest people on earth. The German nation is resisting
         with unanimity, strong weapons, and the strong hearts of men, women,
        and  children. With unprecedented moral strength, they are withstanding
        the  enemy’s insidious attacks, its cowardly assault on their national
        honor,  unity, and steadfastness, Our dead are their witnesses. We are
        obligated  to them. As we lay them in mother earth, we know that they
        repose in the  same grave of honor in which our soldiers on the front
        sleep. They German  people receive their inheritance. They day will come
        when we will take  revenge for them.I wish to speak so loudly here that no one can fail to hear.

      I stand here as an accuser before the world public. I accuse

      the enemy of conducting brutal air terror for no other reason

      than to torture a defenseless civilian population, to inflict

      sorrow, horrors, pain, and death upon them as a way of forcing

      them to betray their nation. Such an attempt will never succeed.

      These cowardly deeds will only bring eternal shame on the nations

      whose governments carry on such contemptible and insidious warfare

      against women, old people, and children.The enemy knows that he is doing only limited damage to our

      armaments and war industries. That is not his goal. His goal

      is to torture defenseless civilians, to bring death to their

      homes and dwellings, and to attempt to break German morale. It

      is his last attempt to salvage his otherwise hopeless military

      strategy. Numerous murdered women, old people, and children testify

      against the Anglo-American plutocrats. They join me in accusing

      a military policy that mocks all standards of human decency.

      Countless destroyed schools, hospitals, churches, and cultural

      monuments join me raising their hands from amidst the ruins to

      condemn a military strategy that commits such crimes.It will do the enemy no good to use the tried and true methods

      of the Jewish men behind the scenes by turning the accused into

      accusers and the accusers into the accused. The guilt for waging

      war against civilian populations rests clearly with the Western

      plutocrats. They can never wash their hands of their responsibility.

      This type of air terror comes from the sick brains of plutocratic

      world destroyers. The Führer did all he could to avoid the

      war, and to wage it in humane ways after it was forced upon him.

      England above all rejected his efforts. From the murder of children

      in Freiburg on 10 May 1940 to the present, a long series of sorrow

      and deep human misery caused by the British-American bombing

      war against German cities testifies against England and the USA

      and their cowardly and terrible plutocratic leaders.The enemy even admits his guilt in careless moments. He does

      not conceal his hopes that the air war will break the powers

      of resistance of the German people in the homeland. An official

      spokesman recently said openly on the English radio: “One

      catches oneself feeling happy that men, women, and children are

      forced to suffer so terribly.” It is almost a direct incitement

      to murder German women and children when some time ago a British

      new agency wrote: “For Heaven’s sake, get to work on the

      German civilian population. That is the only way to break their

      morale.” Even the Church of England recently said: “We

      cannot support the campaign to prohibit air attacks on cities

      because they kill civilians. We are all equal to the bombers.

      Bombs do not distinguish between men, women, and children.”So says the English church. The Anglo-American military leadership

      differs only in that they not only make no distinctions between

      men, women, and children, but do not even wish to. They intentionally

      and cynically carry the war to civilian areas, turn them into

      a battlegrounds, and force women, the aged, and children to live

      and fight like soldiers. The fate and the future of our people

      is being decided not only at the front, but also in the homeland.

      The children who fall to enemy terror prepare the way for millions

      of other children in the future. The women who lose their lives

      to enemy bombing terror prepare the way for millions of women

      to give birth in the coming decades and centuries. As I speak

      to you in deepest sorrow and proudest memory of those who have

      fallen in this city and throughout the Reich, I know that I express

      the deepest feelings of the people of this province. The sacrifice

      of life that so many of your fellow citizens have made for the

      freedom and future of the fatherland is but a reason and obligation

      for you to continue your bitter resistance to enemy air terror.

      It is not customary to speak of hatred at a graveside. Death

      usually brings not only sorrow, but also a kind of reconciliation.

      But in this case, it cries for revenge. The dead whose memory

      we honor today are the victims of the enemy’s cold, calculating

      cynicism. The cynicism will end only when it is beaten down by

      painful, repeated counter-blows. Through me, the German people

      praise our dead. We understand their deaths in this sense, and

      know they did not die in vain. The hour is coming when we will

      defeat terror with counter-terror. The enemy is committing one

      bloody deed after another. He will have to pay the bill one day.

      Countless engineers, workers and builders are at work to speed

      that day. I know that the German people are waiting impatiently.

      I know the thoughts that fill our hearts as we remember those

      who have fallen in the air war. The name of the enemy has been

      written deep into our hearts during the past sorrowful weeks.

      That will be the basis for our coming actions.Until that day, the people of this district must bear their

      heavy burdens with National Socialist steadfastness. The whole

      nation breathlessly follows the battle. The cities that survive

      despite the fire and rubble will receive unfading laurels on

      their coats of arms. When the happy day of victory rings out

      across the Reich, which we all not only long for, but are doing

      all we can to bring about, the flags of our Reich will rise high

      from the ruined streets and buildings. More than any other province

      of the Reich, these areas will be able to say:The war put us in the front ranks of the fighting home front. It showed 
          us its dreadful face. Now we have the first right to bow before the 
          goddess of history to receive the laurels of victory.