 Were one to imagine Western culture without its contributions from Germany 
        and Italy, much would be missing. As obvious as this may be, one has to 
        repeat it now and again to give a short but persuasive reply to the enemy’s 
        arrogant talk. They love to pretend to be the protectors and defenders 
        of an art and culture that they themselves have not created, or to which 
        they made at best a modest contribution that could vanish without much 
        harm to the cultural edifice. The art treasures they possess were mostly 
        stolen by their armies in Europe or the rest of the world. They have hardly 
        any cultural achievements of their own, and those that they do have stem 
        from the spiritual consciousness of that part of the world that they today 
        are trying to destroy. Cities such as Nuremberg and Munich or Florence 
        and Venice contain more eternal manifestations of Western culture than 
        the entire North American continent. What musicians do the English have 
        to compare with Beethoven or Richard Wagner, and what artists can the 
        Americans present to match Michelangelo or Leonardo da Vinci? They talk 
        of human culture. We have it, and remain today its guardians, wardens, 
        and protectors.We have to remember that to properly understand and appreciate

      the gigantic struggle the Axis powers are engaged in. We are

      fighting for the basic values that Europe has created in its

      thousands of years of history. Even more, we are fighting for

      the very source of these values, both in the past and for the

      future. The very roots of Europe are threatened. The nations

      that made the greatest contribution to the West are fighting

      for their material and spiritual existence. Were they to surrender,

      our continent would lose everything. The very roots of its growth, that

      have borne so much fruit over two millennia, would be cut off.It is stupid, and easy to refute, when our enemies maintain that they are 
        fighting only the present leadership of the Axis powers, not their peoples. 
        That is what they have always said, but forgotten  when the time came 
        to act, as for example in 1918 and 1919. Second, these regimes are the 
        natural expression of their peoples’ modern political thinking. They have 
        no other reasonable form of government. The claim that their autocratic 
        structure takes the life from art, even makes its further progress impossible, 
        is easily refuted both theoretically and practically. These regimes are 
        not nearly as autocratic as they are accused of being. They actually have 
        stronger democratic traits than the traditional democracies, and besides 
        the history of culture shows that everywhere and at every time art does 
        not ask under which political system it lives. Churches and secular buildings 
        were built over the centuries by tyrannical popes and kings. The best 
        of Europe’s paintings come from ages filled with the noise of the battlefield. 
        Demonic noble families promoted the highest flowering of the visual arts, 
        while their citizens lived in fear.Even ignoring the past, the present refutes the stupid and base claims 
        our enemies use to conceal their actions, which oppose or destroy culture. 
        It is a rape of sound understanding to justify the crazed attacks of English 
        or American terror planes on German or Italian cities on cultural grounds. 
        German or Italian cultural centers that were built over centuries are 
        reduced to soot and ashes in a brief hour. This is far more than an attempt 
        to terrorize our population, much less to attack our armaments production. 
        This is evidence of an historical inferiority complex that wants to destroy 
        what the enemy is incapable of producing himself, and has never created 
        in the past. European humanity must blush in shame that a 20-year-old 
        American, Canadian, or Australian terror flyer can destroy a painting 
        by Albrecht Dürer or Titian, that he can destroy the work of the 
        most honored names in history, though he and millions of his countrymen 
        have not even heard of them. There can be no apology for such behavior. 
        It is a cold, cynical, calculating attack by the spoiled child of Europe. 
        These upstarts from the New World turn against the Old World because it 
        is richer in soul and spirit. Its eternal artistic accomplishments stand 
        against skyscrapers, cars, and refrigerators.Is it not interesting that the English leadership has destroyed

      dozens of German theaters, while England itself does not have

      even a single serious theater? And the Americans are not even

      worth mentioning. They lay waste to Europe’s cities and its

      cultural landmarks, since there is nothing to compare them to

      in Chicago or San Francisco. Their bombing terror will destroy

      that part of European art and culture that they cannot buy.We know what they are up to. This war is about more than our

      daily bread, our living space, and our peace. More than ever

      before we have to defend our most valuable possessions, the things

      that make life worth living, without which human life is meaningless,

      like the lives of our enemies from the steppes of the east.War is indeed a great destroyer, but it also contains constructive elements 
        that suddenly appear in the midst of its destructive work. It robs us 
        of our senses, yet also gives them back. Never before have our continent’s 
        people been able to see so clearly where Europe stands and what we must 
        do. Times of comfortable peace may make the lure of material comfort seem 
        all too satisfying. War wipes it all away. It drives away dullness and 
        indifference, and returns us to the roots and sources of our strength, 
        teaching that man does not live by bread alone. Never have the German 
        people had such a drive toward intellectual and spiritual things as they 
        do today. I am not speaking of the less pleasant manifestations of war, 
        which are always there. But one should look to our theaters, concert halls, 
        museums, and art exhibitions. Day and night, summer and winter, tens and 
        hundreds of thousands of Germans sit or stand there astonished at so much 
        beauty. We have become richer, more fulfilled, and better as a result 
        of the war.It would be a mistake to explain this development exclusively on material
         grounds. The German people are not spending their money on art because
         there is no other way to spend it, as is sometimes said. The path to
        art  is the path to their hearts. The present with its pain and misery
        drive  us to the consoling certainties of our people, and where are they
        more  visible than in art? We see in it the answer to the destructive
        fury of  our enemies. We learn today to appreciate what they cannot understand,
         since it is threatened. It is of no importance if this occasionally
        occurs  in primitive ways, or as some know-it-alls call it, It would be more than serious if today’s artists did not want to understand 
        that. Never have they had a more eager public than they have today. One 
        must recall the past to know what that means. New pictures, sculptures, 
        plays, novels, symphonies, and operas are no longer of interest only to 
        intellectual critics in the newspapers, as was once often the case. Today they 
        must withstand the eye and ear of the people. Even more, they have to 
        endure comparison with the great works of the past, which the popular 
        consciousness today has begun to understand, and which provide the standards 
        for the new fans of art. Goethe’s maxim is truer today than it ever was: 
        artists must create, not talk. The age offers each the opportunity to 
        test his talents. In contrast to the past, each has an equal chance. 
        No one can complain that he had no chance to speak, as long as he has 
        something to say. Let him reach for the pen, the brush, the chisel, and 
        the compass and speak with the instruments of his art and his calling 
        to an age that is waiting for enlightenment.It is almost a miracle that in the midst of this gigantic

      battle, art is able to exist, almost untouched by the storms

      of our people’s gigantic and fateful struggle. Were any proof needed of National Socialism’s support

      for the arts, this is that proof. That does not mean that artists

      can ignore what is going on around them. There may be an artist

      here or there who believes that since his art does not concern

      the war, the elementary laws of war have no application to him.

      He must be reminded of his duty, perhaps rather firmly. His work, even if not  related to the war, is not an end in itself. He is still working for

      his people, which is enduring the heaviest burdens and deepest

      sorrows. It has a right to expect the artist to recognize that,

      particularly since he enjoys creative freedom in the mist of

      war that he never had in times of normal and unmolested peace.In this fourth year of the war, I have the honor to open in the Führer’s name the 7th

      Great German Art Exhibition in the House of German Art in Munich.The beautiful and impressive exhibition is not independent

      of its age. Its form is influenced by it. It contributes to the

      war at the front. Our artists here give the best evidence of their energy

      and their creative fanaticism.As in the past war years, the Führer cannot be with us.

      But his spirit is even more with us. This cultural monument,

      the building, and the exhibition, are his work. It was built in

      peace, maintained and expanded in war, and points to a happy

      and blessed peace. Its splendor today gives us a sign of what

      will be when the victory comes, in which we believe more today

      than ever before.I greet the Führer in this great age, of which he is

      the creator. The scaffolding is still there and only the expert

      can see what its creator has in mind. But we can all believe

      in it.We do that with all the strength of our hearts. 