 Every revolution has its mistakes, ours too. That is not in
        
        itself bad, since they mostly disappear on their own or with
        
        time. The important thing is that those in charge keep their
        
        eyes open and do not remain silent when they ought to speak
        
        out of fear of the public. Obviously, an historic revolution
        
        of vast extent brings a mass of nonsense to light along with
        
      its enormous benefits.It becomes dangerous only when the nonsense is left to grow,

      thus hemming in and strangling the healthy, organic development

      of the revolution.It is time today to expose some of this nonsense that has

      accompanied the National Socialist revolution to the full light

      of day, to examine it without pity.That is even more necessary, since otherwise some of this

      nonsense over time may gradually corrupt the style and nature

      of our revolution, leaving to posterity an image of our nature

      and goals that in no way corresponds to National Socialist convictions

      and views.Certainly there is need for public regulation of the great

      moral foundations of our national life. However, some nonsense

      is also spreading that attempts to reach beyond that to establish

      a code for the purely personal conduct of individuals.That leads eventually to a moralism that is everything other

      than National Socialist.Peculiar people whose life is either behind them, or have

      no right to have one ahead of them, preach moralism in the name

      of our revolution. This moralism often has nothing in common

      with true morality. They proclaim ethical laws that might be

      appropriate for a nunnery, but are entirely out of place in a

      modern cultural state.An example. In a major central German city an advertising poster for 
        a soap company showed a fresh, attractive girl holding the soap package 
        in her hands. A moral knight who unfortunately had the right to determine 
        the fate of this poster forbade its distribution on the ground that it 
        offended the moral sensibilities of the population, since the woman in 
        the poster was holding the soap in a place “that for moral reasons 
        cannot be described more precisely.”What is moral about this? The person announcing the ban, who

      presumes that other people share his dirty fantasies, or the

      German people and the National Socialist movement, that are rightly

      upset and in opposition to such a ridiculous action?Investigating the matter, we find that this wonderful citizen

      discovered his attraction for National Socialism three months

      after we took power, which however did not stop him from issuing

      the ban in the name of National Socialism.Things have gone so far that this company of moralists does not stop 
        at the borders of private life. They would love to establish purity committees 
        in cities and the countryside that would keep on eye on Müller’s 
        and Schulze’s love and marriage life. It is true that they do not want 
        to go so far as to ban kissing altogehter, as in the familiar operetta, 
        since it is too popular a pastime. If it were up to them, however, they 
        would turn National Socialist Germany into a wasteland of muttering and 
        complaining, a place where denunciation, spying, and extortion were the 
        order of the day.These same moralists often turn to government offices with the request
         to ban films, plays, operas, and operettas, since the dancers, stars,
         etc., apparently represent a grave danger to public decency. If we gave
         in to their demands, we should soon see only old ladies and men on the
         screen or the stage. The theaters would be empty, since the public generally
         does not attend them to see the same people they see in church or old
         people’s homes.Save us from these hypocritical creatures who have no genuine strong 
        conception of life, and who in reality preach no honest morality. They 
        generally are life’s losers, protesting life itself. Eternal life and 
        its laws will hardly make way for them; at most, they will hide behind 
        a screen of contemptible hypocrisy and dishonest prudery.They think that the German woman should not go out alone, she should 
        not sit alone in a restaurant, she should not go out with a boy or even 
        an S.A. man without a chaperone for a Sunday afternoon excursion, she 
        should not smoke, she should not drink, she should not wash up and make 
        herself pretty, in short she should do everything to keep the evil interest 
        of a man away from her. That is, at least, is how these midget moralists 
        think a German woman should behave. And woe to the poor womanly creature 
        who has the misfortune to transgress against one of these laws. Of course, 
        no German woman will have bobbed hair, since only Jewesses and other contemptible 
        creatures do that.Have these moral trumpeters any idea how they slander and

      demoralize millions of German women with their preaching, women

      who bravely and honestly do their duty in life and on the job,

      who are good comrades to their men and sacrificing mothers for

      their children?Don’t they realize that they embarrass National Socialism throughout 
        the world, that they are thirty years too late, or that one must take 
        them to task because they are beginning to be annoying? There are good 
        and bad women, decent and less decent women, some with bobbed hair, some 
        without. Whether or not they powder their noses is not a sign of their 
        inner worth, and if they occasionally smoke a cigarette at home or in 
        society, they do not need to feel rejected or cast out.In any event, these moralists should not sit in judgment over women,
         whether they are enemies or even if like all real men they wish women
         happiness, relaxation, and domestic peace, though their stuffy superiority
         would keep women from it.They think it is not National Socialist to enjoy life, but rather one
        should  only look at the dark side of human existence. Pessimism and
        suspicion  are the best teachers in our earthly vale of sorrows. A true
        National  Socialist has no cause to protect these miserable creatures.
        Primitiveness  and absolute rejection of pleasure are the only character
        values to these  people. If one has a clean and a dirty collar, one puts
        the dirty one  on to give evidence of his hatred of bourgeois values.
        A man with a good  and a bad suit wears the bad one, particularly for
        festive occasions,  for it shows the astonished world how revolutionary
        his outlook is. He  dislikes joy and laughter; people should have nothing
        to laugh about.Are we living in a pietistic state, or in the age of life-affirming

      National Socialism?No one can suspect us of wanting to live lives of ostentation or luxury. 
        The Führer and many of his close comrades neither smoke nor drink 
        nor enjoy sumptuous living. Those, however, who want to rob a nation of 
        sixty million of every pleasure and all traces of optimism are contemptible, 
        entirely aside from the fact that their foolish desires would drive countless 
        people into poverty and misery.Every banned activity makes more people unemployed; if no

      one can drive a car, the automobile factories will shut down,

      if no one wears a new suit, the looms and tailors will have nothing

      more to do; if people no longer attend movies or the theater,

      hundreds of thousands of stage and film employees will depend

      on public assistance.To take joy and pleasure from a people means to make it

      unfit for its struggle for its daily bread.He who does that sins against our reconstruction efforts and

      embarrasses the National Socialist state before the whole world.The result would be a dreary impoverishment of our public

      life. That we will not accept.We do not want to abolish pleasure, but rather to let as many as possible 
        share in it. That is why we encourage people to attend the theater, that 
        is why we give workers the opportunity to dress well for festive occasions. 
        That is the reason behind We need more affirmation of life and less complaining! More

      morality, but less moralism! 