 The American press has the noble right to complain about

      Europe. It makes vigorous use of this right, particularly when

      Germany is involved. National Socialist Germany is a thorn in

      its eye.The Third Reich has been the target of its mockery, hatred,

      lies, and slander since 30 January 1933, especially from that

      part controlled by the Jews. The American press takes particular

      pleasure in criticizing Germany on grounds of humanitarianism,

      civilization, human rights, and culture. It has every right to

      do so. Its humanity is shown in most vivid form by lynchings. Its civilization
        is

      shown in economic and political scandals that stink to high heaven.

      Its human rights are displayed by eleven or twelve million unemployed,

      who apparently chose to be so. And its culture exists only because

      it is always borrowing from the older European nations. Such

      a nation is certainly justified in sneering at ancient Europe,

      whose nations and peoples looked back on centuries, even millennia,

      of cultural achievements long before America was even discovered.The American press replies to our complaints by saying that

      it has nothing against Germany, only against National Socialism.

      That is a poor excuse. National Socialism today is Germany’s

      guiding political idea and worldview. The entire German nation

      affirms it. To criticize National Socialism today therefore means

      to criticize the entire German people.It will not do to say that National Socialism is a dictatorship,

      and that there are still many in Germany who, inwardly at least,

      reject it. That simply is not the case. It is a fantasy that

      exists only in the minds of democratic politicians and journalists,

      but has nothing to do with the facts. There is no doubt about

      it: the public campaign against Germany is a conscious and intentional

      provocation aimed at the German Reich and the German people.Generally, it does not make any difference to us. We Germans

      do not depend on the love or grace of other nations; we live

      from our own national strength. The time is long past when Germany

      expected its salvation from abroad. Such international help was

      always lacking when it was most needed during the postwar period.

      It appeared only when international money and stock capital believed

      that it could earn vast profits that could be earned
      nowhere else by helping Germany.We could simply say that America is far away, with a big ocean separating
         us. What do we care about what they think, write, or say about us? That
         was fine as long as America’s highly developed hate campaign against
          Germany kept within certain bounds. But when it infects even official
          circles rather than merely newspapers and radio stations it becomes
         more  serious.This campaign reached unbelievable heights after 10 November 1938. American
         public opinion, influenced by the Jews, is trying to interfere to an
        intolerable  degree in German domestic politics. They think that can
        use methods against Germany that are normally unheard of in relations
        between civilized nations.We know very well who the instigators and beneficiaries are.

      They are mostly Jews, or people who are in their service and

      who are totally dependent on them.For example, it is not surprising that the New York press

      attacks Germany so strongly. Over two million Jews live in New

      York and public, and especially economic life, there is entirely under
        their control.The German press so far has generally responded to this
        filthy

      and dispicable campaign of hatred only sporadically and
        in a restrained manner.

      Only after official personages in the United States got involved

      did we think it necessary to say something. For example, the

      American Interior Secretary Ickes publicly declared on 19 December 1938
        that

      no American could accept a medal from the hands of a brutal dictator
        that with the same hand robbed and tortured thousands of people,

      that  saw a day when it committed no new crime against humanity

      as a day wasted. Put simply, that is not a style of speaking

      that is customary in relations between states.The American Undersecretary of Secretary of State Welles responded

      to German protests by saying that Ickes’s statement represented

      the opinion of the overwhelming majority of the American public.

      One does not know what to say. What does he mean! Was the American

      president ever personally attacked in the German press, or America’s

      leading men slandered? We have been very restrained, even though we

      certainly had every reason to discuss this or that matter of

      American domestic policy.Such things are not our concern. American statesmen, not us,

      determine American domestic policy. We are concerned only with

      Germany’s affairs. We also have no reason or intention of smuggling

      German political ideas into America. The very opposite, since

      the methods that we use are purely German. They are only valid

      in Germany. But we do believe that just as we respect the internal

      affairs of other countries and avoid polemics against them, they

      should treat us in the same way.One cannot say that that is true of the United States of North America
        at present.  Nearly the whole press, radio, and film industry support
        the worldwide campaign against Germany.Senator Pitman put the matter bluntly on 22 December 1938:

      “The American people do not like Germany’s government.”We happen to think that the American people have nothing to do with
        the  matter. If they do not like Germany, it is because of the hate campaign.
         This campaign is conducted by certain international scoundrels who lack
         conscience and scruples. They are doing it both for foreign and alll
        too transparent domestic reasons.The Lima Conference is behind the anti-German campaign. North

      America hopes to encourage South American hostility against Germany,

      and really against Europe as a whole. They do not like German

      competition in the South American market. The enormous North

      American armaments industry is also calling up images of a coming

      war against the totalitarian governments for business reasons.We have no intention of answering the criticisms that the

      American Jewish press raises against Germany by looking at America’s

      domestic affairs. It is enough to observe that although Germany

      is the poorest country in the world in terms of foreign currency

      reserves and raw materials, it has not only abolished unemployment,

      but has a labor shortage. North America, meanwhile has between

      eleven and twelve million unemployed, even though it is rich

      in foreign currency reserves and raw materials. Most of the American

      press ignores this situation. It cannot deny it, of course. It

      claims that German success is contemptible, since it used methods

      of hate and contempt.This is entirely backward. The seven million Germans who got jobs after 
        National Socialism took power in Germany are not interested in the methods 
        that gave them jobs. It reminds one of the familiar joke. Two workers 
        are halfheartedly trying to remove a paving stone. A passerby watches 
        for a while, then grabs a pickax and yanks the stone out. One worker says 
        to the other: “Well, sure, if you use force...”The American press uses the same argument. It cannot deny

      National Socialism’s successes. It can only say: “Well,

      sure, if you use force...” It thinks the German people had

      to make too great a sacrifice for these successes.The German people sees things differently. It knows that certain restrictions
         in some areas were necessary for national reconstruction. The American
         public is practically drowning in wealth, prosperity, foreign currency,
         gold bars, and raw materials. It can hardly imagine how an intelligent,
         hardworking, and courageous people can get along without all those advantages.However that may be, future developments concern us.No one but Germany has the right to judge Germany’s domestic

      affairs. No one has the right to turn one people against another,

      to incite discord and promote ignorance that lead to international

      crises.Mr. Eden, the ambassador of international world democracy,

      found the right audience a few weeks ago in New York when he

      attacked National Socialism. The most prominent representatives

      of American international industry, economics, and finance were

      gathered. Mr. Eden would have done better to tell the eleven

      or twelve million unemployed where they could find jobs. He seems

      to have realized that his hate tirade might have found a less

      friendly reception there than it did from the audience to which

      he did speak.Jewry applauds whenever Germany is attacked. Jewry hates National

      Socialism for reasons that do not need to be mentioned. Jewry

      is our enemy, it should be our enemy, it must be our enemy. The

      question is whether the American people want to make the Jews

      happy by engaging in fruitless conflict with the German Reich

      and the German people. That we do protest against. That is neither

      necessary nor helpful.We have nothing against the American people. We know and respect

      their political views and internal affairs, even if we might

      do things differently. We believe we have the right to expect

      the same of American public opinion about Germany. We also fail

      to see the benefits of such controversy. What good will it do

      America? Does it think it can starve Germany using the same methods

      as those of the World War?Every economic action has two sides. It affects not only its

      target, but also the side that uses it. American cotton farmers,

      sitting on piles of unsold cotton, know this well.It is time to recommend peace and good sense. American public

      opinion is going the wrong way. It would benefit by returning

      to the old, tested practices of international courtesy and good

      manners, and by treating Germany in the way normal among civilized

      nations.We do not expect our appeal to have a great impact on American

      attitudes. Still, we think it our duty to speak plainly.Given the influence of the Jews on parts of American public opinion, 
        we again stress the shortsightedness and uselessness of such methods, 
        and ask the world this question: “What does America really want?” 