 We look back on an historic week.Last week in this space, we discussed a certain clique of

      ignorant and narrow-minded people who have no sense for the great

      era in which we live, who lose their nerve and their inner and

      outer composure at any difficulty. It makes no difference what

      is happening. They simply lack open-mindedness, and in comparison

      to those who are alert to what is happening can only be thought

      poor and pitiable.Last Sunday we took the opportunity to discuss the shortage

      of coffee, and expressed our displeasure with such people. One

      regrets that they live in our era, because they really do not

      deserve it.Our appeal to national discipline sounded rather odd as the

      growing rumblings from Czecho-Slovakia were increasing by the

      hour, throwing all of Europe into tension and uncertainty.Last Sunday and Monday, the various political conflicts began to intensify. 
        The German people began to pay attention. In the past six years, we Germans 
        have become especially sensitive to foreign issues. Even the slightest 
        reaction in the international arena causes our people to pay particular 
        attention to foreign affairs. That was the case here as well. From Monday 
        on, and deep into the night, the people of Berlin gathered at the Wilhelmplatz 
        and outside the Reich Chancellery to await events. That is always a sign 
        that the people are beginning to pay increased attention to world events. 
        They had the impression that storm warnings were out, and they were right. 
        As always, the nation waited in disciplined quiet for the Führer’s 
        decisions and conclusions.Tuesday was a nerve-wracking day for all the relevant offices

      in the Reich capital. Hour by hour, the former Czecho-Slovakia

      was disintegrating into its various parts. The blunder of the

      Treaty of Versailles existed only to form a military base against

      Germany. It was near collapse. It was no longer able to fulfill

      the tasks given it by the Western European democracies in the

      fall of 1938. In Bohemia, they wanted to establish “an advanced

      outpost against the Germanic bloc.” As recently as 27 September

      1938, the French newspaper “Epoque” wrote: “Czecho-Slovakia

      is certainly an important strategic card in France’s game, particularly

      for the air force. Bohemia’s wide spaces are a wonderful base

      for the air force. If the Bohemian bases were at France’s disposal

      and were occupied by the Russians, the Allied squadrons would

      be in the position to strike at the heart of Germany.”This military mission for Prague’s chauvinists was now obsolete.

      Czecho-Slovakia’s hour had come. New forces had appeared in Europe,

      and they were ordering things in this area by different laws.

      The inner logic of the situation resulted in the collapse of

      the rotten structure artificially established and held together

      by Versailles. But new life sprang from the ruins. The old era

      was replaced by by a younger and more dynamic era.As State President Hacha came to talk with the Führer

      shortly after midnight on Tuesday evening, the future of the

      ancient German lands of Bohemia and Moravia was already determined.

      It was determined by historical necessity, which was speaking

      a clear and unmistakable language.A night of nerve-wracking tension passed. As the Führer

      finished his proclamation to the German at 5 a.m., an historical

      decision had taken place.Shortly after, radio stations told the world that the historic

      provinces of Bohemia and Moravia had returned to the federation

      of the Greater German Reich. State President Hacha himself had

      asked the Führer to assume the protection of these provinces,

      noting that he “was confidently placing the fate of the

      Czech people and nation in the hands of the Führer of the

      German Reich.”The so-called Czecho-Slovakia ceased to exist. In a single

      night a nation vanished that in reality had never been a nation.

      It was the state for which France and England were presumably

      ready bring Europe to a crisis in fall 1938, perhaps even to

      plunge it into war. On 4 September 1938 the London “Observer”

      had written that the British people were ready to stand against

      the New Order “like a block of steel, and an overwhelming

      alliance would stand at its side, as in the last war.” Similar

      voices came from Paris, and had there not been more reasonable,

      clear-sighted, and clear-thinking statesmen in England and France,

      the gambling politicians of democracy would have undoubtedly

      succeeded in provoking an unpredictable catastrophe for the sake

      of this artificial state. But now the house of cards has fallen.The night from Tuesday to Wednesday also was a clear affirmation

      of the correctness of the policies Chamberlain and Daladier had

      followed in the Czech question, which explains the total lack

      of reaction in the Western democracies to the collapse of the

      former Czecho-Slovakia. Naturally the professional warmongers

      in the hostile German-hating lying press are stuttering out a

      few emotional diatribes and impudent insults against Germany,

      but none of them is of any political significance. Nothing can

      change the facts, and it is evidence of the growing realization

      in the Western democracies that no significant figure is raising

      any objection. The justice of Germany’s position is too clear

      to be disputed.On Wednesday, the Führer hurried to Bohemia and Moravia

      to be with the troops marching in, and that evening the Führer’s

      standard flew over the Castle in Prague. The German people held

      its breath. Even the last man knew that history was being made.

      An historic act of symbolic significance was ending a process

      that could have led to war or peace. The Führer’s clarity,

      courage, and intelligence are the reason that the signs pointed

      to peace, not to war.The Reich Protectorates of the historic provinces of Bohemia

      and Moravia were proclaimed. It was the conclusion of a historical

      process that had begun around the year 1000, when the earliest

      chronicler of Bohemia, the Slav Comas, already thought Bohemia

      a part of Germany. Through the years, Bohemia and Moravia were

      bound by feudal ties and other connections to the German Reich.

      Prague itself has the oldest German university. The most beautiful

      buildings of the city were built by Germans: the cathedral, the

      Charles Bridge, the Teyn and Nicholas churches. The prosperity

      and economic successes of these peoples and provinces have always

      been strongest when they were under the protection of the Reich.Now it continues. Central Europe has won back peace. An system

      has been created in which the stronger of the two neighbors is

      eager for peace and the weaker has accepted the protection of

      the stronger, not the other way around. It is a thoroughly reasonable

      and logical arrangement of the relations between the two peoples.

      If the weaker has power, it will inevitably attempt to oppress

      the stronger and weaken its sense of nationhood, since it is

      the only way to ensure its position. The stronger, on the other

      hand has no such need. Because it is  stronger, it can afford

      to be generous and to establish a system that gives justice to

      both nationalities.That is what has happened here. It is a truly historic decision,

      and the German people have accepted it as such.The situation leads us to speak once more to the complaining

      know-it-alls who at the moment have the good sense not to say

      anything in the face of the facts. These know-it-alls are always

      prominent when the nation faces a crisis or when a shortage surfaces.

      In the face of major successes, they fade into the background,

      since there is no chance to criticize the National Socialist

      government or the National Socialist worldview. They cannot understand

      why we National Socialists, and the whole German people, love

      our era. This historical event gives us an opportunity to tell

      them:We love this era because history is being made. Our hearts beat faster 
        because it has a manly character, because it more important than the temporary 
        difficulties that are part of every great era. We simply cannot understand 
        how some people in the midst of this exciting age can be bothered only 
        be a temporarily reduced coffee ration, or reduced critical freedom, or 
        dogmatic or religious hair-splitting. We love our era because it gives 
        us tasks and challenges, because in it a man has given the German nation 
        life again after many decades of stagnation. We love our age because in 
        a blessed hour problems have been solved that had existed for many hundreds 
        of years, because these problems, so at any rate it seemed, were solved 
        with an almost playful ease that seemed to lay observers almost necessary 
        or self-evident.This era is our era. We give it the full strength of our heart

      and mind because it eliminates reasons for conflict and brings

      about true peace, because it is a proving ground for real talents

      and manly abilities, because this era is Germany’s great opportunity

      in which we can help as obedient servants of the Führer.

      We love this era because its successes and victories lead us

      to forget all the related troubles and discomforts, because it

      has taught us to despise a life of safety, ease, and comfort,

      because the greatness of the era leads us to dare to take on

      big and apparently unsolvable problems. We National Socialists

      say openly that we have only pity and contempt for those ignorant

      people who have no sense at all of the historic era in which

      we live. How impoverished must the hearts and minds of those

      be who cannot recognize such an age, who cannot comprehend the

      great triumphs happening around them because foolish trifles

      like a temporary shortage of coffee cause them discomfort.We are not living in their era. They did not bring it about,

      nor do they have any influence on it.But we are bound to the era by the laws we follow. Wherever

      the Führer may act, we stand by him in loyal obedience and

      thank fate that it gave us such a great era. We experience the

      era with all our being, and in its blessed hours are always overjoyed

      that we are the children of this era. 