 It easier for the rich to be moral than it is for the poor. Wealth protects 
        the wealthy, but encourages the poor to take action.A rich man, for example, would never think of stealing bread.

      Only someone who is hungry but has no money steals bread. When

      the rich man is hungry, he has more than enough bread and everything

      else besides to quell his hunger.Likewise, a rich man with a car will never travel without

      a ticket on the subway. Aside from the fact that he could easily

      buy a ticket, he has a fancy car waiting in front of his fancy

      house.The rules of social conduct are also stricter when one is poor. The poor 
        are crammed together in huge apartment buildings, while the rich live 
        in large houses with enough rooms so that everyone can find a place away 
        from everyone else in the family when necessary. In an apartment building, 
        on the other hand, where people live on top of each other, one has to 
        turn off the radio by a certain hour, since the neighbor wants to get 
        to sleep, sleep he needs if he is to get up and go to work tomorrow. In 
        a big house one can let the radio blare all night, since the nearest house 
        is 30, 40, or 100 meters away.The poor live a more disciplined life than the rich, otherwise

      they could not get along with each other.It is absurd for the rich to complain that certain rules apply

      to the poor that are not at all necessary for the rich.As far as morals go, the most moral people are those who have

      had an exciting life already. As the proverb has it, the old

      whore prays the loudest. Nature makes morality easy at that point,

      and it is easy to understand why at an advanced age one might attempt

      to atone for a wild life. One wanta to forget a notorious past,

      and therefore loves to preach morality to those who are still

      in the middle of life, or have not even yet begun to live. Everything

      is suddenly turned around. The old demand morality of the youth,

      especially when they used their own youth to the fullest.This is true not only of individuals, but also of peoples.

      This is the real reason why we are not at the moment able to

      agree with the democracies, England above all.The English talk a lot about political morality. They have

      everything they need. They established a world empire at a time

      when politics was not all that concerned about morality. Now

      they are defending their empire with moral platitudes.They do not even think about stealing food since they are

      not hungry. They have enough food whenever they want it. They

      can joke about our Four Year Plan since they have at their disposal

      the enormous wealth of their empire. The boundaries of their

      national life can be very lax, not to say democratic, since they

      face no threat to their national existence.It is not so easy for us Germans. We have been a fully unified nation 
        only for the last six years. We are still young and bear the scars of 
        our former discords. We have to be cautious, sometimes even strict, lest 
        the old wounds reopen.The English can afford the luxury of so-called freedom of

      opinion. It costs them nothing. The unity of the empire is in

      no danger. The whole English people is united in a single nation.

      They need no startling actions or “fait accomplis,”

      since they have everything the need, or even could wish for.It would never occur to the English to add to their nation,

      since the English people have been united for centuries.We, however, were forced to such things. We had no choice. We do it not 
        because we feel superior, but because we must in order to survive. That 
        has nothing to do with morality from either the English or the German 
        side. One should be wary of using terms that have an entirely different 
        meaning in political life than they do in private life.Leading officials in England recently have been saying that

      while it is true that England has protectorates, English protectorates

      exist only to guard the freedom and culture of the peoples who

      live there.Europe grinned as this profound wisdom was revealed. The English

      have the ability to conceal the truth with moralistic phrases,

      sometimes concealing rather dubious situations that otherwise

      would provoke some excitement.They are such moralists today because they have their sheep

      safely in the barn and would like to forget their past. They

      find nothing wrong with the fact that Europe is divided into

      haves and have-nots. They have no idea that the have-nots may

      not be happy with the situation. They would never even think

      of changing the way things are. The world is the way God wants

      it. He ordained that the English have everything and the other

      peoples of the world are poor, and therefore dependent on the

      English.London has a newspaper that is prototypicallly English. It is called 
        the At the moment, however, the English press really has gone

      too far. No one else believes it any longer. Everywhere in Europe,

      people wink when the English begin to speak on difficult political

      matters. They invite people to morning and evening prayers, where

      they hope to do a little political business or cattle trading.Were they battling for their national existence, they would doubtlessly 
        use every means at their disposal. However, they have always thought it 
        better to fight to the last Frenchman, Russian, or American.An example of the depth of London’s lies is the recent story

      about an alleged German ultimatum to Rumania. London invented

      the whole thing to rouse the world public against the Reich.

      Both Berlin and Bucharest immediately denied it in the strongest

      terms. But the English certainly did not look like sinners who

      had been found out. To the contrary, despite the forceful denials

      they continued to speak about the matter as if they were not

      sure whether it were true or not.That is how the English are now, always were, and presumably

      always will be. They have no right to tell us what to do.How did we ever reach the point where we listened to their

      moral advice? When the discussion turns to political morality,

      the best thing the English press could do is to stay out of the

      discussion.For the past few weeks, the English have been broadcasting

      the news in German. They do it cleverly, giving the impression

      of loving the truth and of having almost scientific objectivity.

      They are doing that in the hopes of winning listeners in Germany

      that they will be able to use when things get tough. Then they

      will not be as objective as they now seem to be. They will revive

      the old atrocity stories that they used to rouse the whole world

      against Germany during the World War.Now they seem surprised that German radio has begun to broadcast news 
        in English. Soon they will start to complain. They cannot imagine that 
        any other nation in Europe has the same rights that they have.Their moral trumpeting in the past weeks as German troops

      marched into Bohemia and Moravia is a classic example of the

      English mentality, but with one exception: the moral trumpeting

      does not seem to work any longer.All of Europe at present is revolted by England acting as its moral aunt, 
        sitting on the sofa of its empire, secure in its own wealth, complaining 
        about others. Europe has changed since the war. The poor nations are also 
        the young nations. They want to live. They will live. The Archbishop of 
        Canterbury will not stop them. They have seen through the rich. England 
        can no longer dismiss the demands of the have-nots with pious phrases. 
        Their mimicry will not work any longer.John Bull should be advised to remove the mask so that Europe

      will be able to see what is behind the fog of phrases England

      is using to confuse world opinion. Their empire was built through

      war, oppression, concentration camps, starvation, and blood.We Germans are glad to listen to moral advice, but only from those who 
        have the right to give it. England does not. When people are talking about 
        political morality, the Empire had best remain silent. We have some friendly 
        advice for London. Do not shout so loudly. You are not alone. The whole 
        world is laughing itself to death at pious talk of morality coming from 
        those who reek of blood. 