 It is a major error to assume that England’s plutocrats slipped

      into the war against their will or even against their intentions.

      The opposite is true. The English warmongers wanted the war and

      used all the resources at their disposal over the years to bring

      it about. They surely were not surprised by the war. English

      plutocracy had no goal other than to unleash war against Germany

      at the right moment, and this since Germany first began to seek

      once again to be a world power.Poland really had little to do with the outbreak of war between

      the Reich and England. It was only a means to an end. England

      did not support the Polish government out of principle or for

      humanitarian reasons. That is clear from the fact that England

      gave Poland no help of any kind whatsoever when the war began.

      Nor did England take any measures against Russia. The opposite,

      in fact. The London warring clique to this day has tried to bring

      Russia into the campaign of aggression against Germany.The encirclement of Germany long before the outbreak of the

      war was traditional English policy. From the beginning, England

      has always directed its main military might against Germany.

      It never could tolerate a strong Reich on the Continent. It justified

      its policy by claiming that it wanted to maintain a balance of

      forces in Europe.Today there is still another reason. The English warmongers

      conceal it. It is crassly egotistic. The English prime minister

      announced the day the war began that England’s goal was to destroy

      Hitlerism. However, he defined Hitlerism in a way other than

      how the English plutocracy actually sees it. The English warmongers

      claim that National Socialism wants to conquer the world. No

      nation is secure against German aggression. An end must be made

      of the German hunger for power. The limit came in the conflict

      with Poland. In reality, however, there is another reason for

      England’s war with Germany. The English warmongers cannot seriously

      claim that Germany wants to conquer the world, particularly in

      view of the fact that England controls nearly two thirds of the

      world. And Germany since 1933 has never threatened English interests.So when Chamberlain says that England wants to destroy Hitlerism

      in this war, he is in one sense incorrect. But in another sense,

      he is speaking the truth. England does want to destroy Hitlerism.

      It sees Hitlerism as the present internal state of the Reich,

      which is a thorn in the eye of English plutocracy.England is a capitalist democracy. Germany is a socialist

      people’s state. And it is not the case that we think England

      is the richest land on earth. There are lords and City men in

      England who are in fact the richest men on earth. The broad masses,

      however, see little of this wealth. We see in England an army

      of millions of impoverished, socially enslaved, and oppressed

      people. Child labor is still a matter of course there. They have

      only heard about social welfare programs. Parliament occasionally

      discusses social legislation. Nowhere else is there such terrible

      and horrifying inequality as in the English slums. Those with

      good breeding take no notice of it. Should anyone speak of it

      in public, the press, which serves plutocratic democracy, quickly

      brands him the worst kind of rascal. They do not hesitate to

      make major changes in the Constitution if they are necessary

      to preserve capitalist democracy.Capitalism democracy suffers from every possible modern social ailment. 
        The lords and City people can remain the richest people one earth only 
        because they constantly maintain their wealth by exploiting their colonies 
        and preserving unbelievable poverty in their own country.Germany, on the other hand, has based its domestic policies

      on new and modern social principles. That is why it is a danger

      to English plutocracy. It is also why English capitalists want

      to destroy Hitlerism. They see Hitlerism as all the generous

      social reforms that have occurred in Germany since 1933. The

      English plutocrats rightly fear that good things are contagious,

      that they could endanger English capitalism.That is why England declared war on Germany. Since it was

      accustomed to letting others fight its wars, it looked to the

      European continent to find those ready to fight for England’s

      interests. France was ready to take on this degrading duty, since

      the same kind of people ruled France. They too were ready for

      war out of egotistic reasons. Western European democracy is really

      only a Western European plutocracy that rules the world. It declared

      war on German socialism because it endangered their capitalist

      interests.A similar drama began in 1914. England had more luck during

      those four and a half years than it is having today. Europe’s

      nations had no chance to see what was happening. The nations

      of Europe today have no desire to play the same role they played

      during the World War. England and France stand alone. Still,

      England is trying once again to wage war without making any personal

      sacrifice. The goal is to blockade Germany, to gradually bring

      it to submit by starvation. That is longstanding English policy.

      They used it successfully in the Napoleonic wars, and also during

      the World War. It would work now as well, if the German people

      had not been educated by National Socialism. National Socialism

      is immune to English temptations. English propaganda lies no

      longer work in Germany. They have gradually lost their effectiveness

      in the rest of the world as well, since German propaganda today

      reaches far beyond its borders. This time, English plutocracy

      will not succeed in driving a wedge between the German people

      and their leadership, though that is their goal.The German nation today is defending not only its honor and

      independence, but also the great social accomplishments it has

      made through hard and untiring work since 1933. It is a people’s

      state built on the foundation of justice and economic good sense.

      In the past, England always had the advantage of facing a fragmented

      Germany. It is only natural that English plutocracy today seeks

      to split the German people and make it ripe for new collapse.English lying propaganda can no longer name things by their

      proper names. It therefore claims that it is not fighting the

      German people, only Hitlerism. But we know this old song. In

      South Africa, England was not fighting the Boers, only Krugerism.

      In the World War, England wanted to destroy Kaiserism, not the

      German people. But that did not stop English plutocracy from

      brutally and relentlessly suppressing the Boers after that war

      or the Germans after our defeat.A child once burned is twice shy. The German people were once

      victims of lying English war propaganda. Now it understands the

      situation. It has long understood the background of this war.

      It knows that behind all English plutocratic capitalism’s fine

      words, its aim is to destroy Germany’s social achievements. We

      are defending the socialism we have build in Germany since 1933

      with every military, economic and spiritual means at our disposal.

      The bald English lies have no impact on the German people.English plutocracy is finally being forced to defend itself.

      In the past, it always found other nations to fight for it. This

      time, the English people must themselves risk their necks for

      the lords and City men. They will meet a unified German people

      of workers, farmers, and soldiers who are prepared to defend their

      nation with every means at their disposal.We did not want war. England inflicted it on us. English plutocracy

      forced it on us. England is responsible for the war, and it will

      have to pay for it.The whole world is waking up today. It can no longer be ruled by the 
        capitalist methods of the 19th century. The peoples have matured. They 
        will one day deal a terrible blow to the capitalist plutocrats who are 
        the cause of their misery.It is no accident that National Socialism has the historical

      task of carrying out this reckoning. Plutocracy is collapsing

      intellectually, spiritually, and in the not too distant future,

      militarily. We are acting consistently with Nietzsche’s words:

      “Give a shove to what is falling.” 