by Joseph GoebbelsHistory does not repeat itself. As with everything creative, its imagination 
        and opportunities are inexhaustible. However, it always follows eternally 
        valid laws. Because these laws are ignored or violated in the same or 
        similar ways by nations or people, they apparently lead to similar situations 
        or results.It is therefore wholly wrong to compare this war with the World War, 
        or to seek parallels in their phases. The age in which we live, and this 
        war, are unique in nature and conduct, unparalleled in history. He who 
        attempts to evaluate them by past standards runs the risk of making the 
        worst political and military mistakes.Even our national situation, and the whole international one, is entirely
         different than 1914. Because of the sterile foreign policy of the period,
         we were forced into a two-front war with intolerable military burdens.
         Furthermore, our people was not psychologically prepared for war. The
         people had no idea why it was fighting, nor what it was fighting
         for, and the government did nothing to let it know what the situation
         was, and what the future would be. The German government missed every
         diplomatic opportunity to stop London’s encirclement plans. They practically
          gave their trump cards to the enemy. At the beginning of the war, they
          were prepared only for the most favorable circumstances, and were thus
          surprised by unfavorable developments. There formerly had been much
         better  and more promising opportunities to fight the war that had now
         become  unavoidable. They were surprised at the worst possible time,
         and then  declared war themselves, which was to be of decisive psychological
         significance.Today, the situation is reversed. The Führer’s brilliant statesmanship 
        succeeded by tireless diplomatic efforts in destroying attempts at encirclement, 
        either in advance or through military means. False claims of neutrality, 
        intended only to provide a march route to Germany, were destroyed, and 
        a dangerous two-front war avoided. Germany’s back is secure in this battle 
        of fate. And our psychological war is being waged most successfully, not 
        only at home, but also in the rest of the world. The nation knows exactly 
        what is at stake. It knows what it is doing, is fully aware of what would 
        happen if it lost the war, and knows the opportunities it will have if 
        it wins. Every conceivable resource is being used in this gigantic struggle. 
        The opponent lost one trump card after another, even before the war began. 
        The Führer prepared for this historic conflict with care and foresight, 
        planning for the worst, and thus preparing for the best. And at the critical 
        hour, the Western plutocracies declared war, clearly putting themselves 
        in the wrong.During the World War, we faced a deadly blockade. Germany had prepared 
        only militarily, and that in an inadequate way. It was defenseless against 
        a blockade. It had neither practice nor experience, and thus either took 
        no measures at all, or took them so late that they did more harm than 
        good. The rationing system was corrupt, which was a heavy psychological 
        burden for people, and also made a consistent implementation of necessary 
        economic measures impossible. It is therefore no surprise that the Reich 
        succumbed to its enemies in this area in November 1918.Today our situation in no way resembles the former situation. True, the 
        English-French plutocracy tried again to use the old methods of economic 
        encirclement against the Reich, but these methods have lost their effectiveness. 
        We prepared for a blockade. We knew its deadly effects from the World 
        War, and thus did everything we could to be ready for it. We are prepared 
        economically to wage war. The experiences of the World War were helpful. 
        Our enemies mocked our Four-Year Plan, but it prepared us to survive even 
        the tightest blockade. The Reich secured its economic and agricultural 
        resources in such good time that we are safe from any unpleasant surprise. 
        Corruption is impossible due to the most severe penalties. The Reich has 
        sufficient reserves of raw materials to fight for as long as necessary.Militarily, we entered the World War without taking full advantage of 
        our enormous population resources.We were then the strongest military 
        power in the world, but could not resist the attack of the entire world. 
        The tragedy of the first historic weeks of the gigantic battle was that 
        we lacked the divisions on our endangered right flank, divisions that 
        we could have had. All the later measures could not help.Today, the German military has the most modern technical equipment imaginable. 
        The German population is being used fully. The German military is therefore 
        prepared for any offensive. Everything is happening as planned, according 
        to a firm system. Our army’s achievements are beyond all praise. They 
        are admired by the whole world.In 1914, we were completely on the defensive psychologically. The Reich 
        viewed the war from a middle class perspective, without realizing that 
        we faced a world of enemies who were determined to use every method of 
        falsehood and incitement. The German leadership had no experience in the 
        battle for public opinion. It had no concept at all of the people’s dynamism. 
        It settled for loud shouts of patriotism rather than any real confidence 
        or sovereign spiritual attitude, which alone lead to victory. We faced 
        hate-filled, treacherous and slanderous international enemies who knew 
        how to make the leadership of the Reich look bad in every matter.How different is our situation this time! Here, too, Germany is clearly 
        on the attack. It knows how to use the weapon of truth with sovereign 
        assurance. Its news policy is fast, practiced, clear and powerful. It 
        is prepared in every last detail to deal with public opinion at home and 
        in the world. The German nation did not enter this war with the momentary 
        enthusiasm of a bonfire, but rather the German people are fighting with 
        clarity and determination. Thus it is no longer possible to use the international 
        atrocity stories that were so extraordinarily dangerous to the Reich during 
        the World War.And the German army today has the magic aura of invincibility and of 
        a glorious revolution, which is of enormous importance. True, the world 
        is still wavering between limitless hatred and unlimited admiration in 
        its evaluation of this so-called German miracle. But it really was no 
        miracle. Guided by the hand of a genius of historic greatness, the National 
        Socialist system has been victorious. This man’s inspiring effect has 
        awakened the spirit of a new ideal from the old German virtues: the precision 
        of thinking and labor, the fanaticism of systematic preparation, a readiness 
        to sacrifice, the greatest intelligence paired with imagination and inventivenes, 
        sovereign knowledge, boundless enthusiasm on the part of the whole people, 
        a youthful spirit of attack — in short, the ability to make of the 
        German misery forced upon us by our enemies a brilliant virtue. What is 
        it that from the beginning has guaranteed the success of the German military 
        on every battlefield of this war? For the first time in history, creative 
        German genius is freed of all bureaucratic and dynastic restrictions, 
        and now has full freedom. Germany had always been as strong as it is today, 
        but it did not know it. Never before in its history was it able to discipline 
        itself, to use its full strength, and to develop a government structure 
        that allowed it to make full use of its political and military opportunities. 
      That is yet another reason why a comparison to 1914 is completely wrong. 
        The German people held on for four years only because its inner strength 
        was so strong that it survived all the weaknesses and failures of its 
        government. Today, it is different. The German people is able to fully 
        use its national reserves of strength. What is winning today is a system 
        prepared in 14 years of struggle and in seven years of practical work. 
        It was given its creative spirit by a brilliant political and military 
        genius, and can now live from its own strength.It is very easy for foreigners to attribute our political and military 
        successes to an improbable sequence of good luck. It is the kind of luck 
        that, as Moltke once said, only the virtuous have over the long term. 
        We therefore face no really serious political or military developments 
        in this war. Our enemies may be forced to imitate our methods, which they 
        hate so much. One often says in the enemy camp that National Socialism 
        can be fought only by using National Socialist methods, or something similar. 
        However, we know only too well how much sweat, how much work, how much 
        experience, and above all how much time, is necessary to achieve even 
        the first successes. Today the enemy camp is shouting: “Arms, arms! 
        More planes, more tanks!” Blind fools! We have exerted our full energy, 
        with an unequaled national rhythm, sacrificing our people’s ease and comfort, 
        to reach our goals. In the seven years we sacrificed to build our military, 
        foreigners mocked our slogan: “First guns, then butter!” Today 
        it is clear that one cannot conquer cannons with butter, but that cannons 
        can conquer butter. From today’s standpoint, they did us a favor in 1918 
        by taking our old weapons from us. We had to build our German military 
        from the ground up so that it is not only the largest, but also the most 
        modern, army in the world. We spared no expense, no sacrifice, no effort, 
        to ensure that if war came, we would have to, have to, have to win it, 
        or else lose our life as a nation.Mr. Churchill and Mr. Reynaud will not be able to persuade the world 
        that France and England can recover from the first terrible blows they 
        have received. The parallels that their newspapers draw to 1914 — 
        parallels that show their anxiety and bad conscience — are entirely 
        wrong. In 1914, we had real weaknesses in our national defenses that our 
        enemies could exploit. Today that is no longer the case. Our enemies are 
        recalling retired old generals in their mid-70’s and 80’s, hoping they 
        can provide a second “miracle on the Marne.” We can tell them 
        that history does not repeat itself. It is too much to hope for that after 
        agitating, threatening, and terrorizing the world for years, they can 
        overcome their enemy by an unearned miracle.Miracles, too, have to be earned. Plutocracy has no way to escape today. 
        It is trapped. It began this war confident that it could wage this war 
        without bloodshed, using only economic blockade. Now it faces the hard 
        necessity of having to fight. Thank God, they have left us in no doubt 
        about what they would do to us if we lose: They prophesy the dissolution, 
        dismemberment and destruction of our Reich and nation. Every German knows 
        that. We had time enough to reflect on it during the long, hard winter 
        months — all of us, German soldiers, farmers, and workers.The lords of the western plutocracies now have to fight these soldiers. 
        Our farmers grow the daily bread for these soldiers, and the workers behind 
        the front forge their weapons. They all know that in these days, weeks, 
        and months, Germany’s fate for a thousand years to come will be decided. 
        They are deeply aware of living in a unique age. They want to prove worthy 
        of it, thus proving that they are a unique people as well. 
  
