 In Germany people say that the Führer is always right.

      Abroad, one says he is always lucky. That is only partly true.

      The Führer has earned his luck. He makes it easy for fate

      to help him. He acts according to the principle that in politics

      one must always be ready to take advantage of an opportunity.

      There is nothing more contemptible than a statesman who fails

      to rise to an opportunity. The Führer’s enemies practically

      fall into his hands. That is proof that they are chosen by fate

      to collapse. A tired and exhausted world declines not only because

      of its weaknesses, but above all because of its mistakes, its

      illusions, its faulty sense of reality, and its missed opportunities.

      It confirms the truth of the proverb: “God makes blind those

      whom he wishes to punish.” The entire history of National

      Socialism and its enemies is further proof.On 14 September 1930, for example, the Führer won his

      first great electoral victory. The NSDAP won 107 seats in the

      German Reichstag. The democratic republic faced two choices:

      to recognize the Führer or to destroy him. The first would

      have been reasonable and logical, the second difficult but not

      impossible. The republic did neither. They watched things happen

      like the rabbit views a snake, giving themselves up to their

      fate. Only when it was too late, they founded the Iron Front.

      Only after the National Socialist movement was too big to be

      stopped by force did the republic try that means, and only when

      he was the man of the hour did it condescend to take him seriously.

      The last chance came on 13 August 1932. Once more they missed

      it, and gave the Führer the time he needed to prepare for

      National Socialism’s final victory over the parliamentary resistance.

      This missed opportunity cost the democratic republic its life.The same story repeated itself in the international arena after the take 
        over. The right day for France and Germany to have taken on the National 
        Socialist movement and the resulting National Socialist state would have 
        been 30 January 1933, or 31 January at the latest.The Western European plutocrats had two choices: they had

      either to destroy this new Germany immediately, or to seek a

      lasting peace with it. The first was at the time still possible,

      the second would have meant some sacrifice, but nothing all that

      expensive. It would also have been reasonable and logical. Neither

      happened. Once again the enemy fell into illusions that did not

      hurt Germany, but robbed its enemies of sound human judgment.Our departure from the League of Nations gave our enemies

      abroad a new, though more difficult, opportunity. They either

      should have declared war or made peace. Again, they did neither.

      Again they were hypnotized like the rabbit in front of the snake.

      They hoped for a German revolution and were so blind that they

      failed even to study the National Socialist movement, though

      they knew that it wanted to change the entire balance of power

      in Europe.They complained about the introduction of universal military

      service, but did nothing. They responded to the occupation of

      the Rhineland with empty threats, but did nothing. There was

      but a single attempt by the enemy to find a midrange solution:

      the naval agreement with England. Even that was neutralized through

      the infamous incitement to war that came from London, which destroyed

      any possible positive effects of that treaty.Schuschnigg, for example had the opportunity to be the savior of Austria 
        and the father of the One may say that history is there to teach us lessons! After the experiences 
        of the past three years, one begins to doubt it. Those who opposed the 
        National Socialist movement or the National Socialist state had the ambition 
        to try it themselves, and each paid a high price. We are not even referring 
        to the deafening shouts of enemy propaganda, so embarrassingly stupid 
        that we consider it beneath our dignity to pay any heed to it. But the 
        enemy always had statesmen whose job it really should have been to think 
        more clearly, to consider the real facts of the situation, and avoid expending 
        their wisdom only in well-paid newspaper articles. Even in October of 
        last year, and at the height of his military triumphs of the Polish campaign, 
        the Führer gave his famous speech to the Reichstag in which he offered 
        London and Paris a reasonable and inexpensive peace.What kind of devil was leading the West European plutocrats to mockingly 
        reject his offer instead of eagerly accepting it! A foreign newspaper 
        wrote a few days ago that if this offer were repeated in its original 
        form, all those money bags in London would eagerly accept it. But if they 
        worked for war with all their strength, why did they not at least prepare 
        for it with all their strength as well?People often ask: What are Churchill, Chamberlain, and Reynaud really 
        thinking? My answer: About nothing at all. They are thinking just as little 
        as Scheidemann and Braun and Brüning did in their day. They are possessed 
        by such a proud and arrogant superiority complex that they do not believe 
        they have to think at all. Were I English or French, I would be desperately 
        asking what my government had done during the five hard months of winter. 
        The answer has to be: Nothing at all, other than finding cheap victories 
        on paper, fabricating lies and slanders, and urging the hated Germans 
        to start a revolution. That revolution would bring defeat and the partition 
        of the Reich. It would mean the return of a political gigolo like Otto 
        Hapsburg as King of Austria, the loss of the Rhine and Ruhr to France, 
        and Pommeria, Siliesia, and Brandenburg to Poland. The Germans would have 
        to be pleased to eat their meals in French field kitchens at the points 
        of bayonets.What a delight!Now our western offensive breaks loose on these plutocrats. They told 
        their soldiers that they needed only to wait at the Maginot Line and hang 
        their washing on the Siefried Line. Now they must send those soldiers 
        into hard and bloody combat.If one believed the speeches these statesmen gave in the past, one would 
        have to think that they would be delighted with the state of things. They 
        have the war they wanted. Yet they are suddenly yammering that we attacked 
        them. That is not what they wanted. They were thinking of a bloodless 
        war in which German soldiers would not fight, but rather German women 
        and children would starve. Their plan has suddenly collapsed. They sit 
        in their churches and pray. They hypocritically call upon God as their 
        ally, and beg the rest of the world to pull their chestnuts out of the 
        fire and to cool down the soup they have cooked. They hypocritically complain 
        about the fate they have brought upon themselves, and in the same breath 
        invite others to join them.What can one say to these intellectual athletes and their

      absolutely crazy proclamations? They do not grow weary of filling

      the air with their loud cries for help. They remain impudent,

      superior, stupid and cowardly, small tradesman of politics, who

      were foolish enough to take on a historical genius who once said

      he could not forgive fate for giving him only nonentities as

      opponents.Is anyone left who will ask for London’s protection? The refusals

      come from every direction on the compass. And what shall we do

      with the talkative old gentlemen in London and Paris who, like

      our former domestic opponents, missed every opportunity and have

      suddenly begun to talk a bit more quietly? The best thing to

      do would be to leave them in the hands of their own people for

      their just reward. Once they realize the scale of the coming

      catastrophe, they will know what to do with statesmen who have

      been weighed and found wanting.History will remember them as gravediggers of a rotten and

      weary world. One must only give a shove and it will collapse. 