 
There is no point to debating Mr. Churchill about English ship losses 
        or the damage caused by German air attacks. He follows the time-honored 
        British policy of admitting only that which is impossible to deny, then 
        cutting it in half, while at the same time doubling or tripling the enemy’s 
        losses. This balances the accounts. The astonishing thing is that Mr. 
        Churchill, a genuine John Bull, holds to his lies, and in fact repeats 
        them until he himself believes them. That is an old English trick. Mr. 
        Churchill does not need to perfect it, as it is one of the familiar tactics 
        of British politics, known to the entire world. They made good use of 
        the trick during the World War, with the difference that world opinion 
        believed it then, which cannot be said today. That is because at the end 
        of the World War British plutocracy believed that Germany would never 
        recover. In part from indifference, but also in part from boastfulness, 
        they made the mistake of telling the world the tricks they had used to 
        defeat the Reich. In the memoirs written by British statesmen, Mr. Churchill 
        in particular, one could see that the London plutocrats had no problem 
        lying to high heaven during the war. They were even proud of fooling Germany 
        in so easy and clever a fashion. They revealed their methods. They are 
        not believable any longer. We only need to refer to the World War and 
        note that the same men are determining English news policy as did from 
        1914 to 1918, and everything becomes clear.That is of course rather painful for those involved. One should not, 
        as a rule, reveal one’s secrets, since one does not know if and when one 
        may need them again. The essential English leadership secret does not 
        depend on particular intelligence. Rather, it depends on a remarkably 
        stupid thick-headedness. The English follow the principle that when one 
        lies, one should lie big, and stick to it. They keep up their lies, even 
        at the risk of looking ridiculous.That applies to the dramatic events now taking place at sea and in the 
        air. Despite his own knowledge and the facts, Mr. Churchill keeps saying 
        that England is in a good position, and he is not in any way influenced 
        by contrary facts. The Royal Air Force has pulverized Hamburg, destroyed 
        every railroad station in Berlin, and left German war production in ruins, 
        all the while never hitting a clinic, hospital, orphanage, old people’s 
        home, or any kind of civilian target at all. The German Luftwaffe, on 
        the other hand, has never been particularly interested in military or 
        industrial targets. It is instead magnetically drawn to churches, schools, 
        institutions for homeless children, and workers’ homes. They particularly 
        like embassies, consulates, or American businesses. They fly randomly 
        over English cities until they have found such a target, then dive down 
        and drop their bombs. They want to drive the USA into the war. If perchance 
        the German Luftwaffe manages to bomb an industrial city like Cardiff, 
        Reuters reports: “Unknown airplanes attacked something or another 
        somehow, somewhere. The damage is still unclear, but no military or industrial 
        targets were hit. Further details will follow.” The world public 
        can wait for the details until the war is over. Should the neutral press 
        somehow manage to report serious damage despite English censorship, the 
        king sets to work to attack the world’s tear ducts. He personally visits 
        the damaged city. English workers are there to cheer enthusiastically. 
        They seem to have nothing better to do than to plant the Union Jack in 
        the midst of the still smoking ruins, or to dance the Lambeth Walk in 
        the middle of the blackened walls, and to cheer the king as he goes on 
        his way. This will apparently continue until not a single stone in England 
        is left standing on another, and the long-awaited moment to begin the 
        glorious English offensive against the accursed German devil arrives. 
        It all moves His Majesty to the degree that he takes £200 from his 
        vest pocket (about 2000 Reich marks) and puts it in the poor box. His 
        Majesty’s visit ends with a visit to a harbor, where the king watches 
        a ship being unloaded. Reuters happily announces the cargo is American 
        frozen meat, which proves first that Atlantic ship traffic is functioning 
        normally, and second that His Majesty is in good physical and mental condition, 
        despite the seriousness of the situation.How different we Germans are! If the Führer does not speak, it is 
        proof that he is uncertain and sees no way out. If he does speak, one 
        can conclude that the situation in the Reich is catastrophic and people 
        desperately need reassurance. If he does not speak of a rapid victory, 
        it is because he does not believe in it. If he does speak of it, he is 
        just trying to confuse the world. If he meets with the Ducé, it 
        means there is a rift in the Axis. If he does not meet, it is because 
        the rift is too deep to repair. If he visits the troops, he is fleeing 
        the situation at home. If he does not, it is, of course, because he is afraid 
        of the soldiers. In England, people give three cheers when  fat and 
        meat rations are reduced. In Germany, that would naturally lead to a revolution. 
        In England, snow and ice speed up the passenger and freight system, but 
        in Germany they throw it into total chaos. German methods of warfare are 
        contemptible and foolish, but one is not embarrassed to imitate them. 
        English methods are exemplary, humane, liberal, and advanced, but they 
        do not work, they have no success, and are therefore quietly dropped. 
        When we announced a few years back that we preferred cannons to butter, 
        all England protested. Now, however, the English have eaten the butter, 
        while we have the cannons. They now have to follow the same principle 
        through which we built our army, but that does not change the fact that 
        these methods are dumb, short-sighted, narrow-minded, and shallow because 
        they were invented by National Socialism. There is no point to talking 
        with the English. As long as Mr. Churchill is at the helm, John Bull will 
        win every time. What a pity that it always loses the offensive.Mr. Churchill recently strolled through the ruins of the City of London 
        after a major German Luftwaffe attack. Reuters naturally reported that 
        the public applauded him energetically and shouted “Good old Winston! 
        Keep it up!” When one asked him about peace, he answered: “After 
        we have won!” One could find that impressive, if one did not know 
        him better. But we know him. We know it is all a front, that he sees no 
        way out, and that he is so far into his criminal policies that there is 
        no way back any longer. He looks strong, but has nothing left, and can 
        only hope for a miracle.There will not be a miracle. Luck is always on the side of him who has 
        earned it, and history in the end has always sided with those fighting 
        for high ideals who are not willing to give up. Mr. Churchill is not such 
        an idealist. He represents a rotten and corrupt world. He is a man of 
        the 18th century who drapes himself with the symbols of the 19th century, 
        hoping thereby to win the battles of the 20th century. This is a world 
        of unlimited individual profiteering at the cost of other people and nations. 
        It has been replaced in Europe by new ways of building nations. The future 
        is theirs. A believing, sacrificing youth is gathered under its banners. 
        This youth will win not only because it is well armed; it will win because 
        it is young, because it represents a revolution, because it has mobilized 
        powerful and dynamic forces that can no longer be resisted. The wheel 
        of history can not be held back, not even by Mr. Churchill. In his more 
        rational moments, he probably realizes that he is fighting for a lost 
        cause, that his time is past, that he has no hope of catching up.He is in fact one of those people who always wants evil, but nonetheless 
        does good. He gave our revolution the decisive final push. Were it not 
        for him, it probably would have taken much more time to reach completion 
        than it now will. In the end, we really have to thank him. Because of 
        him, we will need only as many months to reach our goal as we otherwise 
        would have needed in years, or even decades.There is no point in trying to convince him of that. He belongs to those 
        stubborn people who can only be convinced by the facts. Let us bring about 
        those facts. 