 Hundreds of thousands of young German soldiers have been crossing our 
        eastern border and marching through the famed “workers’ and peasants’ 
        paradise.” Had National Socialism not been victorious, many of them 
        would today be members of the League of Red Fighters, readers of the The Soviet Union knew what it was doing when it sealed itself off from 
        the rest of the world from its earliest days. No matter how socialist 
        it declared itself in its programs and proclamations, it dared not do 
        what National Socialist Germany, for example, did hundreds of thousands 
        of times: to send its own farmers and workers on their own ships to distant 
        countries, where they could on the one hand enjoy and admire the beauties 
        of these lands, but also compare conditions there with those in their 
        own land. They learned to love their people and fatherland, with its order, 
        cleanliness and social justice. Bolshevism could maintain its social illusion 
        only because its deceived population lacked any opportunity for comparison. 
        When one has lived for 25 years in a dark cellar, a kerosene lamp looks 
        like the sun, and for those who were citizens for twenty-five years of 
        the so-called Soviet Union, the most dreadful hovel seemed a palace and 
        a piece of bread the food of the gods, since he heard every day that those 
        in non-Bolshevist countries did not get anything to eat at all. Moscow 
        was a world to itself. An insidious mixture of dogmatic party doctrine, 
        clever Jews and greedy state capitalists rode the conglomerate of peoples 
        that made up the Soviet Union. Those who could remember pre-Bolshevist 
        times, even if by hearsay, were slaughtered. Since they did not see or 
        visit other countries, it was easy to deceive the drugged citizens that 
        the Soviet Union was a paradise instead of the hell it was in reality. 
        It was one of the biggest and cleverest cases of popular deception in 
        all of human history.Shortly after our National Socialist revolution, a number

      of communists who had fled Germany after committing political

      crimes returned, saying they would rather be in a German prison

      than so-called free citizens in the so-called Soviet Union. Our

      soldiers marching into the East now can see with their own eyes

      what these victims of Bolshevist seduction experienced. The veil

      is falling. The mystery with which Bolshevism so gladly (and

      with good reason) surrounded itself is surrendering its secrets.

      Moscow is being revealed.We hear about it in the tales of officers who are sent from

      the front to Berlin for a day. We read it in countless letters

      from soldiers that reach the homeland. Rarely has an army begun

      its victorious march into an enemy land with such curiosity,

      and probably never has what they actually saw been so much worse

      than their worst expectations. It is simply indescribable. Bolshevism

      is being revealed as a disgusting mixture of phrases and poverty,

      of stubborn doctrine and a complete lack of constructive thinking,

      of splendid socialist phases and the most distressing social

      decay. It is mass betrayal in the truest sense of the word.What was supposedly going to infect our soldiers has had the opposite 
        effect. Perhaps an occasional soldier previously thought National Socialist 
        teaching about Bolshevism was a bit exaggerated. He finds that reality 
        is even worse. The same thing happened with his comrades, who as they 
        marched into the ghettos of Poland like Litzmannstadt, Krakow, and Warsaw 
        realized not only the accuracy, but also the pressing necessity of our 
        anti-Semitic views. When they returned home, they reproached us for understating 
        the dangers. Our soldiers in the East will have the same opinions of Bolshevism 
        when they return.It is outrageous that this spiritual infection wanted to conquer

      Europe, indeed the entire world. It would be like a cholera patient

      who maintained that he alone was healthy, and that it was his

      right and duty to infect those whose health he saw as sickness,

      in order to make them as healthy as he.It is no accident that the question of Bolshevism is being discussed 
        just as all this is being revealed. A wave of awakening is rolling through 
        Europe. The peoples who have maintained a healthy core are setting aside 
        their various differences and spontaneously heading to the Eastern Front. 
        Mr. Churchill, meanwhile, is hurrying to seal the international alliance 
        between democracy and plutocracy, despite the cynical orgies over the 
        past 25 years in the so-called worker’ paradise. Things that belong together 
        should be together. We have no doubt that the Jewish band that Mr. Churchill 
        surrounds himself with has made it easy for him to find his way to the 
        Kremlin. The wise Stalin can be pleased; the more the peoples of the Soviet 
        Union learn about the horrors of his regime, the louder the admiration 
        he receives from the plutocratic newspapers on Fleet Street. They are 
        astonished at his courage and steadfastness, comparing him to Mr. Churchill 
        himself, flooding him with waterfalls of praise. We have nothing to add. 
        We only hope to use our best efforts to reach even the last person susceptible 
        to Bolshevism with the truth about the abyss before which he stands.The OKW reports that in the Minsk area 20,000 Bolshevist soldiers deserted 
        to the German lines after shooting their political commissars. 52,000 
        new deserters were announced today. This is more than a symptom. It is 
        a sign to the Jewish-terrorist ruling class of Bolshevism that its end 
        is near. It seeks in vain to turn the tide. Listeners to German radio 
        programs in the Russian language, even those who merely pick up a German 
        leaflet, are executed. The cowardly band of liars in the Kremlin seems 
        to sense that its end is near. Moscow newspapers are full of bloodthirsty 
        attacks on those spreading panic and rumors, defeatists, and fifth columnists. 
        The style reminds us of the days just before our takeover in the Reich, 
        when the class-conscious proletariat was warned against attending our 
        meetings. They were afraid of the truth then as now. They watch in horror 
        as their finely woven web of lies is torn apart and the ground on which 
        they stand begins to shake. World history will be their world court.We sent a commission of doctors, jurists, journalists, and radio people 
        to Lemberg. They returned with drawn faces. What they saw there cannot 
        be described. Our newspapers have printed only a portion of the dreadful 
        things that happened under Bolshevism. We have pictures of murdered Ukrainians 
        that we refuse to release to the public, since we fear that viewers would 
        lose all faith in humanity. Given the usual methods of execution, it is 
        practically an act of grace when a bestial soldier rips open the womb 
        of a Ukrainian woman and nails the embryo to the wall. The human eye is 
        not strong enough to see a long series of such photographs. It is hell 
        on earth. The teaching that led to all of this cannot exist in a world 
        in which we wish to live. It must be wiped out.We know that Mr. Churchill and his cowardly but well-paid

      journalists will trivialize or ignore our proofs. He sees what

      he wants to see, and does not see what fails to please him. But

      that will not hinder us from making our charges before the world.

      The war that we are waging against Bolshevism is a war of moral

      humanity against spiritual rottenness, against the decline of

      public morals, against spiritual and physical terror, against

      criminal policies whose makers sit on mountains of corpses in

      order to see whom their next victim will be.They were preparing to plunge into the heart of Europe. Human imagination 
        is insufficient to picture what would have happened if their animal hordes 
        had flooded into Germany and the West. The Führer’s order to the 
        army on the night of 22 June was an act of historic magnitude. It will 
        probably prove to be the critical decision of the war. The soldiers obeying 
        his order are the saviors of European culture and civilization, saving 
        it from a threat from the political underworld. Germany’s sons once again 
        are defending not only their own land, but also the whole civilized world. 
        Schooled firmly in the teaching of National Socialism, they storm eastward, 
        tearing the veil of history’s greatest deception, and giving their own 
        people and the world the opportunity to see what is, and what will come.They hold in their hands a torch that will keep the light

      of humanity from going out. 