 The Jews are masters at fitting in to their surroundings, without in 
        any way changing their nature. They are mimics. They have a natural instinct 
        that senses danger, and their drive for self-preservation usually gives 
        them the proper ways and means to escape danger at no risk to their lives 
        or any need for courage. It is difficult to detect their sly and slippery 
        ways. One has to be an experienced student of the Jews to recognize what 
        is happening. Their response when they have been uncovered is simple and 
        primitive. It displays a perfidious shamelessness that is successful because 
        one usually does not think it possible to be so shameless. Schopenauer 
        once said that the Jew is the master of the lie. He is such an expert 
        on twisting the truth that he can tell his innocent opponent the exact 
        opposite of the truth even on the plainest matter in the world. He does 
        this with such astonishing impudence that the listener becomes uncertain, 
        at which point the Jew has usually won.The Jews call this As long as we had the doubtful pleasure of having to put up with Jews, 
        we had more then enough examples of the typical Jewish characteristic 
        they call It was a system of public deception that, when applied long

      enough, lames a people both culturally and spiritually and over

      time strangles any kind of defense. Before National Socialism,

      Germany was in the midst of such deadly danger. Had our people

      not come to its senses at the last possible moment, our country

      would have been ripe for Bolshevism, the most devilish infection

      the Jews can bring upon a people.Bolshevism, too, is an expression of Jewish The National Socialist revolution was a death blow to this

      attempt. Once international Jewry realized that agitation was

      no longer sufficient to take over the various European nations,

      they decided to wait for a war. They wanted it to last as long

      as possible, so that at its end they could institute Bolshevist

      terror and force on a weakened, drained and impotent Europe.

      This had been the goal of Moscow’s Bolshevists from the beginning

      of the war. They wanted to join in only when easy and safe victory

      was assured, meanwhile holding down sufficient German forces

      to keep Germany from a decisive victory in the West. One can

      imagine the howls of rage in the Kremlin as they realized one

      Sunday morning that the Führer’s sword had cut through their

      web of lies and intrigues.Until then, the Jewish Bolshevist leaders had cleverly kept

      in the background, probably in the mistaken belief they could

      fool us. Litwinov and Kaganowitsch were hardly seen in public.

      Behind the scenes, however, they were about their dastardly work.

      They tried to persuade us that the Jewish Bolshevists in Moscow

      and the Jewish plutocrats in London and Washington were enemies.

      Secretly, however, they were planning to strangle us. That is

      proven by the fact that they made up with each other the moment

      their devilish game was revealed. The ignorant peoples on both

      sides who surely were astonished at such a sight were calmed

      down by tactful measures.In Moscow, for example, the Jews abolished the Atheist Federation, even 
        though it had been a matter of honor only a few days earlier for leading 
        Soviet bigwigs to belong to it. Religious freedom was now guaranteed in 
        the entire Soviet Union. Lying news items were spread in the world press 
        announcing that praying was once more allowed in the churches, among other 
        swindles. The English could not quite bring themselves to play the Remarkably, they are not all that far from the truth in this

      regard. They look different only to those who do not know much.

      To experts, they are as alike as two peas in a pod. The same

      Jews are at work, whether on stage or behind the scenes. When

      they pray in Moscow and sing the The material on Radio Moscow or Radio London and the articles that appear 
        in the Bolshevist and plutocratic organs are simply indescribable. London 
        always gives priority to Moscow, which allows it to preserve good manners 
        and blend into the landscape. Moscow’s Jews invent lies and atrocities, 
        the London Jews cite them and blend them into stories suitable for the 
        innocent bourgeois. They do it only from professional obligation, naturally. 
        The dreadful crimes in Lembert that horrified the entire world were, of 
        course, not committed by the Bolshevists, but rather were an invention 
        of the Propaganda Ministry. It is quite irrelevant that German newsreels 
        made the proof available to the entire world. Obviously we suppress the 
        arts and sciences, whereas Bolshevism is a true center of culture, civilization 
        and humanity. We personally were pleased at a recent statement by Radio 
        Moscow. It was so absurd and despicable that it was almost flattering. 
        We assume the Jewish speaker recalls the good old days in Berlin. Unless 
        they have a very short memory, they must recall that all their insults 
        will only lead to a thrashing at the end. Every evening they announce 
        that they want punch our nose, us and all the other Nazi pigs. Sure, you 
        want to, but doing it is something rather different, gentlemen! The whole 
        affair has a certain tragicomic tone. The Jews talk as if they were really 
        strong, but soon they have to move their tents and run like rabbits from 
        the approaching German soldiers. One could almost say that anyone with the Jews on his side has already 
        lost. They are the best pillar of the coming defeat. They carry the seed 
        of destruction. They hoped this war would bring the last desperate blow 
        against National Socialist Germany and an awakening Europe. They will 
        collapse. Already today we begin to hear the cries of the desperate and 
        seduced peoples throughout the world:“The Jews are guilty! The Jews are guilty!”The court that will pronounce judgment on them will be fearful. We do 
        not need to do anything ourselves. It will come because it must come.Just as the fist of an awakened Germany has struck this racial

      filth, the fist of an awakened Europe will surely follow. Mimicry

      will not help the Jews then. They will have to face their accusers.

      The court of the nations will judge their oppressor.Without pity or forgiveness, the blow will strike. The world

      enemy will fall, and Europe will have peace. 