 “I was confused in the past, and could not believe in
      anything great. But now I have seen it all, and ask that if I
      remain alive, you accept me as a member of the great German workers’
      party. If I die, I die gladly for Germany, and am persuaded of
      everything.”Those are the words of soldier Joseph Zezetka from Donawitz,
      taken from a letter to the local group leader of his home town.
      Millions of similar letters have come from the Eastern Front
      in the last three months. They give the German people a picture
      of the hardships and difficulties of the Eastern campaign, of
      its dangers and physical and mental strains, but also of the
      firm and unshakable confidence that our soldiers have in victory.
      No propaganda, no news reports, no pictures could do the job
      better. Lying enemy  propaganda never tires of saying that we
      are giving the German people a false or incomplete account of
      the battle in the East. Letters from our soldiers are the best
      refutation. They write from direct experience, mostly to their
      closest kin, people from whom they have no need to conceal the
      truth. They tell the unvarnished truth. They add or subtract
      nothing. They are the most reliable witnesses of the accuracy
      of our accounts of the gigantic battle being fought in the East
      between Europe and its most dangerous and devilish enemy.There are people unable to appreciate the scale of these military
      operations. They see things in the scale to which they are accustomed,
      using the standards with which they are familiar. Such people
      do not realize that a world battle without precedent is occurring.
      Bolshevism is using every available resource to resist annihilation.
      It is a matter of life or death. Only one of us will survive.
      One must consider what would have happened if the Führer
      had not acted to deal with the Soviet danger. Only than can one
      understand what is at stake. Our soldiers are witnesses to Moscow’s
      plans. They have seen with their own eyes the preparations
      made for the destruction first of Germany, then of Europe. They
      also have first hand experience with the Soviet system, and can
      see the true conditions in the paradise of workers and farmers.
      This will have a major influence on the future. Just as there
      was no argument about the Jewish question in Germany after the
      Polish campaign, there will be no debate any longer about Bolshevism
      once the Eastern campaign is finished. This is more than a campaign
      or even a war. It is an historic battle with fate in the broadest
      sense of the word.The same is true of its dimensions. It is understandable that its extent 
        and force exceed all comparison. But it is ridiculous when foreign, above 
        all neutral, observers evaluate it from their narrow provincial frameworks. 
        When, for example, so-called military writers in Zurich or Bern who have 
        the wisdom of a third-grade school boy write that the operations in the 
        East are not comparable to the area to be conquered, one can say that 
        the battles of annihilation are taking place in areas larger than Switzerland. 
        But what good does it do to talk to our critics about numbers or territory? 
        When we took a hundred thousand prisoners during the World War, schools 
        closed, factories flew the flags, and church bells rang for eight days. 
        Today it seems matter of course to us. Yet such a victory is as important 
        today as it was back then. Today, too, military victories are gained by 
        such spiritual and physical efforts on the part of the soldiers as can 
        scarcely be understood by laymen. Any important victory is gained by sweat 
        and blood. In the homeland, we do our work day by day and hour by hour, 
        while at the front a heroism that cannot be put in words is taking place. 
        In the newsreels, we see German soldiers cross vast stretches of mud and 
        slime. Stuka pilots dive on enemy positions and supply lines. Riflemen 
        wait by the roadside for a whispered order to charge 20 meters through 
        withering machine gun fire. Engineers stand neck-deep in a river to finish 
        a bridge in the midst of enemy artillery fire. With bare chests, gunners 
        stand next to their weapons and send death and destruction to the enemy. 
        We see pictures of flyers and riflemen, engineers, and artillerymen, looking 
        nearly dead as they lie in a ditch or lean against a wall for fifteen 
        minutes of dreamless sleep. Then they are at it again, flying, marching, 
        bridge building, firing guns, despite their weariness snapping at the 
        enemy’s heels to keep him from recovering.The OKW reports say only that the operations are going according
      to plan. Now and again the victory announcement fanfares sound
      over the radio and we all hold our breaths. A victory beyond
      anything in the past has happened.Our neutral critics can talk all they want. With all their
      literary and social skills, they probably could not conquer a
      Soviet village. Their know-it-all articles do not reflect well
      on them, particularly since they are in no danger themselves
      as long as the heroic German army is defending Europe, and therefore
      them as well. They would not have much opportunity to write military
      criticism if the German army stood aside and let Bolshevism march
      past. As experience shows, only the German army is in a position
      to stop that from happening. These people may know a lot and
      have so many clever things to say, but the Soviets would put
      an end to them rather quickly. The intelligentsia in the East,
      at least as much of it as still exists, can speak to that point.
      They have learned by experience. The so-called intelligentsia
      in Zurich, Bern, and Stockholm have not learned much. Hatred of
      National Socialism has blinded them. They are not objective,
      they are downright prejudiced, to put it politely. They speak
      about European culture and civilization. Each German soldier
      fighting in the East does more for that than they do with all
      their chatter, chatter that is possible only because that same
      German soldier holds his protective sword over them. That is
      the way things are.One has to stay that, even if it stirs up a hornets’ nest. We
      know these so-called neutral intellectuals. They do not deserve
      the name. They do not understand what is happening. They look
      backwards instead of forwards. They have no idea of what was,
      and still less of what is coming. They would like to pick things
      up after the war where they left them when it started. Their
      sterile fantasies are not sufficient to build the future. They
      think the possible to be impossible, not to mention that which
      seems impossible. Nine years ago, they said our political success
      was impossible. How can they predict our future successes in
      foreign and military affairs! They can only be persuaded by the
      facts. If there are no facts for two weeks, they are ready to
      discard a new age. They investigate the past with scientific
      thoroughness, but the present is a book with seven seals.If potatoes are in short supply in Germany for two weeks,
      they believe that the German people are ready to revolt. They
      see signs of the collapse of morale if coffee or beer or cigarettes
      are in short supply, and if the German people fail to welcome
      such shortages with cheers. If Mr. Churchill gives one of his
      stupid, bombastic, absurd speeches, they watch eagerly to see
      how Germany responds. We do not respond at all. We know that
      Mr. Churchill and his plutocratic clique want our annihilation.
      We are indifferent to whatever they may say. We just get to work
      to help the Führer win.We let no one muddy our view of the greatness of our age.
      We know that only sacrifice and privation and unprecedented efforts
      can defeat the sinister threat from our hating, envious enemy.
      We are prepared. Of course there are the cares and burdens of
      everyday life. Who would deny that? And who would deny that we
      all prefer peace to war, and that each of us in quiet moments
      is making plans for a happier future? We have learned to love
      life in the midst of danger, and occasionally our fantasies may
      mislead us with pleasant thoughts of peace and security, of splendor
      and celebration.But what does that have to do with Mr. Churchill’s hopes that
      we grow weak and cowardly, or that we even for a moment fall
      prey to his clever seduction? We spit in his face. He has always
      been the incarnation of hatred and destruction toward our nation.
      We know exactly what he would do to us, to our families and our
      children if we ever fell into his hands. His Jews have revealed
      that often enough when they raged impotently against us. He cannot
      fool us. The narrow-minded Swiss politicians remind us of Reichstag
      representatives from the Economic Party or the Christian Social
      People’s Welfare. They laughed at us as we battled Marxism for
      the future of the Reich. When the Red Front collapsed, they were
      forgotten and buried.This great and unique era is following its course. Time never
      stands still. It is marching with giant steps toward the future.
      Happy is he who follows at its heels, for he will be a witness
      to the blessed hour when the door to a new century opens. 