It is harder for me than it was in years past to recall the

      old year for my listeners. Certainly there is no lack of material.

      To the contrary, the year 1939 was so dramatic and filled with

      historical splendors that one could fill a library writing about

      them. One hardly knows where to begin.Much that happened in the past year already seems as if it happened years 
        or even decades ago. It was a year burned into the book of history. It 
        will surely give the historians enough material to write about for decades 
        to come. They will explain the events and look into the motives and drives 
        of the central characters. They will attempt to explain all that moved 
        us so deeply, all that we have done, and they will probably fall short 
        in the attempt. Whether friend or foe, supporter or opponent, all will 
        have to admit that this was a great and eventful year, a year in which 
        history was made, in which the face of Europe changed, in which the map 
        took new form. More than that, our people began to restore its national 
        life in 1939, beginning a great effort finally to throw off the chains 
        of constraint and slavery and to once again take our place as a great 
        power after our deep fall From the beginning, it was clear to everyone who could not only read
        history, but also experience it, that this year would deeply affect the
        fate of Germany and the European peoples. True, the first two months
        were relatively uneventful, but he who saw clearly knew it was only the
        calm before the storm. Everyone felt that it would be a year of important
        decisions.On 13 February the ethnic Germans in Bohemia and Moravia made it clear
         that their legal, economic, and social situation in the former Czechoslovakia
         had not become better since the solution of the Sudeten problem, but
        had  in fact worsened. On 22 February, the Slovakians called for independence.
         At the beginning of March there were severe persecutions of Germans
        in  Prague, Brünn and other cities in Bohemia and Moravia. On 8
        March  the Carpathian-Ukranian government in Prague protested against
        the appointment  of a Czech general as Carpathian-Ukrainian interior
        minister. On 10 March,  the Czech government deposed the Slovakian government
        and the persecution  of Germans in Bohemia and Moravia intensified. It
        was clear that the time  had come to settle the problems in these areas,
        which had been cultivated  by Germans for centuries. On 13 March, the
        Slovakian leader Tiso visited  the Führer, and on 14 March the Czech
        President Dr. Hacha placed  the fate of Bohemia and Moravia in the hands
        of the Führer.The goddess of history looked down to earth. German troops

      entered Bohemia and Moravia, and with breathless excitement the

      German people and the whole world saw the Führer take up

      residence in the castle of Prague. Slovakia declared independence

      on the same day, and the day after the Führer issued his

      historical decree establishing the Protectorate of Bohemia and

      Moravia. The Slovakians put themselves under the protection of

      the Reich. The issue of Bohemia and Moravia found its final historic

      solution. On 22 March, the Memel District returned to the Reich.Parallel to these developments, the Polish question was intensifying.

      As early as 5 January, the Führer received the Polish Foreign

      Minister Beck at the Obersalzberg. He reminded him of Danzig’s

      German character and made suggestions for improving German-Polish

      relations. These proposals fell on deaf Polish ears. After the

      reactions from London and Paris to these developments, one knew

      why.On 31 March, soon after the establishment of the Protectorate

      of Bohemia and Moravia, London hate papers printed lies about

      German troops gathering on the Polish border. Chamberlain reported

      to the House of Commons on English-Polish negotiations, and gave

      a formal declaration of British support to Poland.The London warmongering clique thus gave Warsaw the freedom

      to act, in the secret wish that Warsaw would begin the conflict

      that the London plutocrats needed in order to begin their long

      desired and carefully prepared military measures against the

      Reich.The government in Warsaw understood. Beginning in April, 

      terror and persecution of ethnic Germans climbed beyond the previous

      normal and tolerable level. On 13 April, severe anti-German persecutions

      occurred on the Danzig border. The terrorist attacks on Germans

      rose throughout Poland after Germany began its efforts to improve

      relations. German consulates reported countless persecutions

      every day to Berlin. On 8 May, 300 ethnic Germans were expelled

      from Neutomischel County. The German theater was closed in Bromberg

      on 9 May. Two Germans were killed by Poles in Lodsch on 15 May.

      A Danzig citizen was killed by Poles in Kalthof on 21 May.One can understand this only after learning that on 15 May

      the Polish War Minister Kasprzycki was in Paris for secret talks,

      and that the German representative in Warsaw reported to Berlin

      on 8 May that maps were being distributed in Polish cities that

      showed the border moved into German territory past Beuthen, Oppeln,

      Gleiwitz, Breslau, Stettin, and Kolberg.The situation in Danzig intensified under Polish pressure. On 15 June, 
        the German ambassador lodged an official protest against insults and slanders 
        against the Führer. Border incidents and other problems increased 
        through June and July. On 4 August, the Polish government made an insolent 
        and provocative ultimatum against rumors of alleged resistance against 
        Polish customs officials. Danzig rejected the ultimatum on 7 August. The 
        German government expressed its concern to the Polish representative on 
        9 August. Poland apparently felt itself under England’s protection, and 
        gave an unsatisfactory reply on 10 August. On 18 August, the SS Home Defense 
        was mobilized to protect the German city of Danzig. Things were in motion.English plutocracy attempted to wash its hands of the situation and claim 
        innocence, seeking to build a moral alibi for the war it wanted. But even 
        a blind man could see what England was doing.On 24 August, the customs negotiations between Danzig and

      Poland ended because of Polish intransigence. Poland called up

      further reserves and intensified its provocations. On 25 August

      Poland further intensified the situation by firing on a German

      plane with a Reich Secretary on board on international airspace.The reaction of the London warmongering clique to the events

      they had encouraged was clear; on 25 August they demonstratively

      signed a British-Polish alliance. The day after, a million and

      a half Poles were under arms.The Führer spoke to the German Reichstag on 27 August. He announced 
        that he wanted to solve three problems: Danzig, the Corridor, and improving 
        Germany’s relations with Poland in a way that would guarantee peaceful 
        cooperation.Lively diplomatic efforts between Berlin, Rome, London and

      Paris occurred between 28 and 31 August. The Führer yet

      again attempted a peaceful solution by announcing that the German

      government was expecting a Polish emissary. Poland replied by

      provocatively announcing general mobilization on 30 August. Polish

      radio on 31 August declared German proposals to solve the existing

      problems unacceptable. German consulates reported 55 instances

      between 25 and 31 August of the most serious Polish attacks on

      ethnic Germans. Polish troops committed a series of serious border

      violations on 31 August.The result was that German troops marched into Poland on 1

      September. The Führer spoke to the Reichstag and announced

      that force would be met with force. The same day, Danzig proclaimed

      its union with the Reich.The following lightning campaign in Poland was unique in all of history.
         On 2 September, the Jablunka Pass was taken. The Polish army in the
        Corridor  was destroyed on 4 August. Bromberg was captured on 6 September.
        The Westernplatte  fell on 7 September. Lodsch was captured on 10 September.
        The encirclement  of Radom was completed on 12 September. 52,000 Poles
        laid down their weapons.  Posen, Thorn, Gnesen, and Hohensalza were captured
        on 13 September. Gdingen  fell into German hands on 15 September. Brest-Litovsk
        fell on 17 September.  The encirclement of Weichselbogen um Kunto was
        completed successfully  on 18 September. 170,000 Polish prisoners marched
        into captivity. Warsaw  capitulated on 27 September. Modlin fell two
        days later. The Polish army  was defeated and destroyed.Over 700,000 Poles were captured. The booty was enormous. Over a half 
        million guns, 16,000 machine guns, 32,000 artillery pieces and over 3 
        3/4 million rounds of artillery munitions fell into our hands.The London warmongering clique did not lift a finger to support

      its Polish ally. England saw the solution of the German-Polish

      problem only as an excuse to begin the long-desired battle with

      the German people.The English warmongers had achieved their first goal. Ever

      since the Munich Agreement, London had more and more been winning

      the upper hand. They increasingly influenced the governments

      in London and Paris. The year 1939 was increasingly characterized

      by Germany’s encirclement. London plutocracy used the extremely

      tense situation to prepare war against Germany. Chamberlain and

      Halifax were in Paris on 10 January. Chamberlain told the House

      of Commons on 5 February that the full forces of the Empire were

      ready to assist France. On 18 March, Britain and France protested

      the establishment of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia.

      War was avoided only because France and England were not ready

      for it. But as the Protectorate was established, the anti-German

      press campaign in London and Paris reached its first peak.At the same time, the London warmongering clique spread alarming

      rumors to conceal the true situation. A lying report on 19 March

      claimed that Germany had given Romania an ultimatum. The Norwegian

      Foreign Minister denied reports from Paris about alleged German

      threats against the Nordic states on 21 March. On 24 March, England

      guaranteed the security of Holland, Belgium, Switzerland and

      the Eastern states. Not a day passed in which the English press

      did not predict some sort of German attack or spread lies about

      German threats against the smaller states.Paris played the same tune. The French government passed emergency

      measures to strengthen the navy on 28 March. The English Chief

      of Staff Gort visited France.The English-French warmongering clique now made a desperate

      attempt to bring Russia into the alliance against Germany. The

      English Commerce Minister Hudson traveled to Moscow on 28 March.

      London newspapers printed lies on 31 March that German troops

      were gathering on the Polish border. The same day, Chamberlain

      told the House of Commons that England would stand by Poland

      and Romania.The Führer on the following day warned the English encirclers

      in a speech at Wilhelmshaven. On 5 April, Lord Stanhope said

      that the air forces of the English fleet were on alert. London

      established a munitions ministry on 20 April, in case of necessity.

      The Führer replied to these warmongering actions on the

      part of English plutocracy in a speech to the German Reichstag

      on 28 April. He declared the provisions of the German-English

      naval accord null and void, and also the German-Polish agreement

      of 1934.A day before, England had introduced the draft, and negotiations

      between England, France and Russia began on 14 June in Moscow.

      London’s goal was to organize an attack on Germany from both

      East and West.At the same time, English propaganda made the foolish attempt

      to confuse the German people by leaflets, radio and the press,

      the same thing they had so often done in the past. The plans

      failed. The German people stood firmly and unanimously behind

      the Führer. The English attempt to bring Russia into its

      encirclement campaign collapsed.The British Ambassador returned from London to Berlin on 25

      August. The Führer presented him with a generous proposal

      for a lasting understanding between Germany and England. The

      English government did not intend to respond to this constructive

      proposal. Their answer came on 28 August. England claimed that

      it had received assurances from the Polish government that it

      would negotiate with the Reich government. The Führer replied

      to the English government on 29 August that the Reich government

      was ready to accept the English proposal and expected the Polish

      negotiator on Wednesday, 30 August. On the evening of 30 August

      and despite the absence of the Polish delegate, the Reich Foreign

      Minister gave the English Ambassador in Berlin a sixteen point

      proposal to resolve the questions of Danzig, the Corridor, and

      German-Polish minority issues.Poland replied with force, and the Führer had no alternative

      but to answer force with force.Paris and London demanded the withdrawal of German troops

      from Poland on 1 September. The German Reich government rejected

      the demand. Mussolini’s attempts to resolve the situation on

      2 September collapsed because of England’s stance. On 3 September,

      London and Paris gave Germany an ultimatum, and declared war

      against the Reich soon after.Now the mask fell from the faces of the London warmongering clique. When 
        the government was shuffled on 3 September, leading members of the warmongering 
        clique joined the cabinet. Churchill and Eden became official inciters 
        of British war policy.The war of the Western powers against the Reich had begun.

      The Führer’s foreign policy had succeeded in destroying

      Britain’s campaign of encirclement. England and France were alone

      against Germany.The Reich faced a new challenge. All necessary internal measures

      had been taken to ensure a victorious conclusion to the war.

      On 28 August, rationing of food and consumer items was introduced.

      A Ministry for Defense was established on 30 August. Comprehensive

      economic measures were announced on 1 September, and a Reich

      Defense Commission with extensive powers was established on 5

      September. Measures to guarantee the necessities of life for

      dependents of soldiers were implemented on 20 October. As early

      as 6 November, we could increase food rations. On 16 November,

      clothing rationing was introduced, and on 20 November better

      rations for those working at night or in demanding occupations.The front and the homeland celebrated Christmas as a firm and unshakable 
        community. The Führer was with his troops at the West Wall to celebrate 
        Christmas Eve and Christmas Day. The year 1939 ended with the German people 
        holding to an unshakable confidence in victory.Another year is behind us, the proudest and most important

      year of the National Socialist regime. We see its passing with

      honor and respect. It was a German year in Europe’s history.

      We honor the sacrifices that the entire German people have made

      in this year. Some were affected more than others. We have done

      all we could to see that the burdens are fairly shared. This

      war involves the whole people. It is a war for our national existence.

      It has not yet seen its full extent on every front. No one can

      doubt that the warmongering cliques in London and Paris want

      to stifle Germany, to destroy the German people. They admit that

      openly today. They reserve their sanctimonious phrases about

      defeating Hitlerism, but not the German people, only for the

      stupid. We know what they are doing from experience, and a child

      once burned is more cautious the second time. No one in Germany

      listens to them. They want to attack the Führer through

      Hitlerism, the Reich through Hitlerism, and the German people

      through the Reich. All the Führer’s attempts at peace bore

      no fruit with them. We 90 million in the Reich stand in the way

      of their brutal plans for world domination. They hate our people

      because it is decent, brave, industrious, hardworking, and intelligent.

      They hate our views, our social policies, and our accomplishments.

      They hate us as a Reich and as a community. They have forced

      us into a struggle for life and death. We will defend ourselves

      accordingly. All is clear between us and our enemies. All Germans

      know what we are doing, and the entire German people is filled

      with fanatical resolve. There is no comparison here to the World

      War. Germany today is economically, politically, militarily, and

      spiritually ready to respond to the attack of the enemy.It would be a mistake to predict what will happen in the New

      Year. That all is in the future. One thing is clear: It will

      be a hard year, and we must be ready for it. Victory will not

      fall into our laps. We must earn it, and not only at the front,

      but at home as well. Everyone has to work and fight for it.Therefore in this hour as we bid farewell to a great year

      and enter a new one, the homeland greets the front. We greet

      soldiers in bunkers and the front lines, at airbases and in the

      navy. The homeland and the front join in a common greeting to

      the Führer. May a gracious fate keep him healthy and strong;

      then we will look with assurance into the future. Today more

      than ever he is Germany, the faith of our people, and the certainty

      of its future. We bow in honor before the great sacrifices of

      our people. The sacrifices of the past and those yet to come

      must not be in vain. We owe that to the Reich and its future.As we raise our hearts in grateful thanks to the Almighty,

      we ask his gracious protection in the coming year. We do not

      want to make it difficult for him to give us his blessing. We

      want to work and fight, and say with that Prussian General: “Lord,

      if you cannot help us or choose not to, we ask at least that

      you do not help our damned enemies!” 