 Only during the course of this war has it become clear how sick postwar 
        Europe was, and what comprehensive measures it needed, needs, and will 
        need, to return it to health. Just as a harmless cold sometimes allows 
        a series of other illnesses to take hold, an event not of particular significance 
        in itself can plunge a whole region of the world into confusion. Those 
        who do not understand politics, which is the process of history, sometimes 
        believe that the occasion is the cause of great human catastrophes and 
        national transformations. The shot fired in Sarajevo, for example, occasioned 
        the World War, but did not cause it. Europe was ready for such a war, 
        and had been for some years. Only Germany’s leadership did not want to 
        see the danger, and thus found itself in a war that it could have fought 
        more effectively at an earlier time, but instead faced it at the worst 
        possible time. When one knows that a pitiless enemy is seeking the best 
        position from which to shoot, one is well advised to shoot first. An irresponsible 
        national leadership lets things gradually intensify without wanting to 
        see the danger. It gives the call to arms when it is too late.It is thus understandable that during the course of a great struggle 
        for the existence or death of whole nations, the actual occasion that 
        led to the struggle fades from human thought. In the midst of the gigantic 
        dimensions of the war today, the occasion of its beginning in August 1939 
        seems almost trivial. The city of Danzig was to return to the Reich, and 
        Germany was to receive a corridor through a corridor. These more than 
        modest requests on Germany’s party were ignored by our enemies. Indeed, 
        they were used as a pretext for war, with the consequences spreading like 
        an earthquake across the continent. All the old or partially solved problems 
        of Europe broke loose once again. Consider the questions facing Europe 
        at the time. The Treaty of Versailles held our region in its chains, a 
        socialist Germany with a growing population compressed into too small 
        a space was being strangled by dying plutocracies, the young Axis powers 
        were denied access to the riches and raw materials of the world and condemned 
        to a slow decline ending in national death, England with the help of its 
        obedient servants, was using any available opportunity to throw the continent 
        into uproar and confusion, 170 million people in the Soviet Union were 
        condemned to a wretched existence while Bolshevism was building an army 
        that could fall upon the continent in a time of crisis, with the firm 
        intention of bringing about barbaric national revolutions that would destroy 
        economic, social, cultural, and community life.These problems must all be resolved by this war, whether we like it or 
        not. We must follow the laws in effect from its beginning. None of us 
        has a way out any longer. We cannot postpone or delay anything. Each individual 
        campaign of the war is necessary on its own. Were we not to fight them 
        today, we would have to do so tomorrow, probably under much less favorable 
        conditions. No one should imagine that Europe’s problems would have been 
        solved had Poland given up Danzig and allowed a corridor, or if England 
        and France had accepted the Führer’s offer of peace at the end of 
        the Polish campaign. Does anyone believe that England would have gone 
        to sleep or that the Soviet Union would have concluded that it had built 
        its revolutionary army only as a toy? No, war would have returned in a 
        few years, with the difference that the enemy would have learned the military 
        lessons of the Polish campaign and improved its weapons to a degree that 
        might have been beyond our capacities to handle.Fate treats us in a hard and pitiless way, but it intends our good. It 
        forces us to make decisions that we might not make if our enemies seemed 
        agreeable, which doubtless would mean a deadly threat later on. The basic 
        problems of our region have become clear, and their solution can no longer 
        be delayed. It is more than a solution to various territorial difficulties; 
        it is a matter of everything. That explains the war’s dimensions. There 
        are connections between the various theaters of this war which sooner 
        or later would have led to war, whatever the circumstances. In the midst 
        of all the spiritual and physical burdens of this war, indeed of any war, 
        we cannot forget that. The important question is not when the war will 
        end, but rather how it will end. If we win, all is resolved: raw materials, 
        food supplies, living space, the foundations of the social transformation 
        of our state, and the national independence of the Axis powers. If we 
        lose it, all that and much more will be lost: our whole national life 
        itself.That national life is exactly what our opponents question. They may differ 
        in their ideas of how the Reich and its allies might be most efficiently 
        and permanently destroyed. One calls for the dissolution of our military 
        and economic unity, another for dividing us into smaller states, a third 
        for birth control and the reduction of our population to 10 million, a 
        fourth for the sterilization of every one of us under the age of sixty. 
        But they all agree on one thing: in the firm resolve that if they once 
        again defeat Germany, we must this time be crushed, destroyed, exterminated 
        and wiped out. This time we cannot expect another Treaty of Versailles 
        that would leave even the slightest chance of national recovery. The more 
        hopeless the military situation looks for the other side, the more bloodthirsty 
        their Old Testament fantasies of revenge become. Their slogans may sound 
        seductive to the ears of the ignorant, but behind their humanitarian hypocritical 
        phrases is a naked desire for destruction. The Axis powers are fighting 
        for their very existence. The troubles and difficulties the war brings 
        us all pale before the inferno that awaits us if we lose.There is no point in concealing the truth. Clarity is never a cause of 
        weakness, always a cause of strength. If a great national prophet had 
        told the German people in 1917 everything that would happen to them after 
        the capitulation of November 1918, we probably would have won the war 
        instead of losing our breath in the last quarter of an hour. A political 
        genius of the magnitude of Adolf Hitler was necessary to repair the damage 
        done in November 1918 through a 20-year battle. Even then, his efforts 
        often hung by a thread. There will be no second chance. The chance we 
        have today is our greatest. It is also our last. We must every day be 
        clear about that. The solder must realize that as he goes into battle, 
        the worker as he goes to work, the farmer, when he harvests the nation’s 
        daily bread, the engineer, the scientist, the civil servant, the doctor, 
        the artist, wherever they may serve the nation. It must be our prayer 
        every morning and every evening. It must be the motivating force of all 
        we are and do.We can win, and we will win. It will require a gigantic national

      effort by the whole people. No one can stand aside, it involves

      us all. Just as winning the war will benefit us all, losing it

      will destroy us all. As always at the decisive moments in our

      history, our people holds its fate in its own hand. We are the

      blacksmiths of our future, more today than ever before. We must

      show the other nations the way to end the general European confusion.

      Can we blame fate for giving us a last hard challenge before

      the last great triumph? Did anyone believe that our historic

      mission of reordering the continent would fall into our laps,

      without much exertion on our part? History gives no gifts, only

      opportunities. He who does not reach for and hold them loses

      everything.That is how things are, and we must accept them as they are. We know 
        all too well the great sacrifices the war demands from nearly everyone. 
        But are not the sacrifices of the defeated nations much greater than ours, 
        even if they are no longer in the war? Although we are bearing the heaviest 
        burdens of the war, we still have the highest living standard of any European 
        nation. We must accept limitations in every area of life, but nowhere 
        are they unbearable. We must work as never before. The battle for the 
        destiny of our people demands the whole of our devotion, energy and readiness. 
        However difficult it may be, however, one needs only to look around to 
        find someone for whom things are even more difficult. The war is hardly 
        just a matter for soldiers, it is a hard, bitter, and bloody necessity 
        for the entire nation. We did not want this war, despite our constricted 
        and almost hopeless situation back then; it was forced upon us. But now 
        we are at war. The worst is behind us. Now it is the duty of every last 
        man and woman in the country to be filled with a firm and resolute conviction 
        that this war must be fought to a conclusion such that it need not be 
        repeated. We owe that to ourselves and to our posterity.Let us then work and fight until victory is ours! Do everything that 
        will lead to victory and avoid everything that stands in its way. Do not 
        ask when it will come, but rather do everything to be sure that it will 
        come. The day will come when fate gives our nation and those who fought 
        for it the laurel wreath of victory. Then the deep lines on the face of 
        our people will shine with the blessing of the century. 