 Countless people in the enemy camp will nervously ask themselves

      what this new year 1942 will bring for them and their people.

      Will it be stagnation, setbacks or defeat? The year 1941 took

      some detours, and turned out entirely differently than our enemies

      had hoped. One or another may have the nagging doubt as the new

      year gives occasion add up the state of affairs, to wonder what

      catastrophes may be coming, or what heavy blows from which they

      will never recover.By us to one looks to the past and the future, though under

      considerably more favorable conditions than the enemy. We are

      fighting for a just and clear cause. All the omens for victory

      are on our side. The peoples on our side are young and healthy

      and their leadership is determined, whatever the cost, to bring

      the great struggle for the existence of their nations to a successful

      conclusion.We are clear about what awaits us in the coming year, and what we have 
        to do; clarity is always the first step to victory. We know that we are 
        fighting for our national, and in most cases our personal, existence. 
        We do not deceive ourselves, or base our hopes on false illusions. We 
        know what exertions victory requires, and we are ready to accept them. 
        The German people live in a difficult political climate in this third 
        year of the war. That is good. None of us is living under an illusion. 
        The tougher the climate, the greater our determination to overcome the 
        difficulties. Experience shows that peoples facing great challenges do 
        not lose strength, but only gain strength. We Germans would not be where 
        we are today if everything had been easy for us. What we are and have 
        is the result of our own efforts. Rarely in history has something been 
        given to us, or fallen unasked for into our laps. Are we a weaker or less 
        valuable people than those who seem to have good luck more on their side 
        than we do? In this great struggle to we are fighting for our lives. The 
        only ones surprised are those who thought war was a kind of sensational 
        entertainment. The strong hearts and mature minds among us expected just 
        what has happened, nothing else.It is clear that the third year of the war brings problems

      that we never even thought of during more normal times. It demands

      a vast transformation of our economy that increasingly forces

      the needs of civilian life into the background. That is naturally

      more evident in the war’s third winter than it was in its first.

      The war is going full force. It is no different with our enemies.

      The home front shares its fate with that of our soldiers, though

      they have encountered war in its harshest form since September

      1939. The longer the war lasts, the more the home front will

      share the feelings and experiences of the front. That is no cause

      for complaint, but rather in the interests of the front is to be

      welcomed.We have always maintained that the best way to lead people is to freely 
        and confidently discuss the problems that concern us all. That naturally 
        does not mean public discussion of military and political secrets, which 
        democracies often do to their own harm. There are still a large number 
        of questions that no one can deny, since they affect each individual in 
        one way or another. These are mostly the problems of everyday life that 
        confront us all, They are mostly the result of the war, and affect the 
        enemy as much as us. Insofar as they can be solved at all during the war, 
        it is through common effort and mutual aid. To lay them before the people 
        and discuss them is not a sign of weakness, but rather a sigh of strength 
        and confidence. No one, for example, expects the railroad to schedule 
        trains for vacationers when there are potatoes, coal, vegetables, munitions 
        and weapons to move. Few are distressed with Christmas candles are available 
        in limited numbers, since these are badly needed on the Eastern Front. 
        One not only may, one must explain such things. Our people certainly understand 
        this, since it is after all their fathers and sons at the front, and all 
        the privations of the homeland are to their benefit.Finally, most problems are solvable only with the help of

      the people. The people join in more readily when they know what

      is happening and why.The gentlemen in England practically make a profession out of concluding 
        that we are weak because we openly discuss the difficulties of the war. 
        We will refrain from pointing out their own difficulties, lest they have 
        to slap themselves in the face. They are so proud of their so-called free 
        democracy that discusses everything. Were we to conclude from the daily 
        debates in English newspapers something about the condition of England, 
        we would have to believe that the empire was ready to collapse.We do not worry about such matters, since we believe that

      the war will be decided by hard facts, and such a fact is not

      the complaint by Mr. Smith in the By the way, what business is it of the English? They poke

      into our troubles not to help us, but only to score propaganda

      points. They would hardly point it out if we had sufficient tobacco

      products in comparison to their shortage. We are waging war against

      each other. As is well known, any method of warfare is fine with

      the English, as long as it hurts the enemy. Why should we pay

      any attention to what they say? We can expect only that which

      is bad and harmful. They will complain whether things are going

      well or poorly for us, and they presumably pay such loving attention

      to our troubles because they hope to divert us from doing something

      about the troubles by their shouting.How little they know us! One who examines the history of our

      party and the National Socialist movement will note that we rarely

      have been afraid, and never of so-called world opinion. We too

      often have seen with what despicable means and base goals world

      opinion is made to have any respect for it. It is therefore only

      of psychological interest for us to see what London journalists

      and radio announcers do after our articles have been read over

      the radio. They always find something to distill from even the

      simplest and clearest sentence that can feed their empty hopes.

      How many pens have they worn out! They have been doing it for

      over a year, but has anything changed? Not at all! It was wasted

      effort. Nothing has come of British illusions. They will probably

      keep at it. We will continue to speak openly about problems as

      much as possible, paying no attention to English slanders. We

      gain, the English do not.People, and the Germans in particular, are tougher than one

      often thinks. One only has to make it clear what has to be done

      and they set eagerly to work. Can anyone give an example of a

      time when we took an important question to the people without

      success? The German people are always ready to follow even the

      hardest and most uncomfortable requests of their government,

      as long as one has explained persuasively their necessity. The

      readiness of our people is always much greater than one expects.No one, for example, will dispute the fact that wool and fur coats are 
        very rare in Germany at the moment, and that one cannot replace them during 
        the war. Two weeks ago we announced a winter clothing drive for the front. 
        The appeal was not yet over when the telephone began ringing off the hook, 
        blocking the telephone lines to the ministry for hours. Baskets full of 
        letters and telegrams arrived in the following days. None complained, 
        but all offered good and useful proposals, or asked questions about when 
        and where one could donate. As we studied the British newspapers and radio 
        in the following days, we noted with interest that London expected the 
        outbreak of a revolution, seeing the collection of winter clothing for 
        the front as the first sign.We leave the English to their pleasures. They understand as little about 
        the German people as a cow does of nuclear physics. They will pay a heavy 
        price for their illusions. For us, we shall remain tough and relaxed, 
        thinking realistically, never losing our ground, dealing with the problems 
        of the war as they appear, and beginning the new year with the same determination 
        with which we mastered the old one.We will manage, whatever may happen. 