 We speak today to the countless listeners to German radio at the front 
        and at home, or better said, to the entire German people, since there 
        is probably no one in this war who can get along without the radio. There 
        is no particularly urgent reason, but we believe that it is now and again 
        necessary to discuss openly the general lines and directions of our radio 
        policy with the public. Our extensive interest in the radio before and 
        particularly after the seizure of power has taught us that radio programming 
        is a matter of practice, not of theory, and that there is no program that 
        satisfies everyone. The numerous proposals that we receive from the public 
        lose much of their usefulness in that they apply to widely different parts 
        of our programming and often contradict one another. One thinks that our 
        broadcasting is too serious, another thinks it is much too light. A third 
        wants more news and commentary, a fourth none at all. A fifth wants programming 
        to end at 10 p.m., a sixth is just ready to get started then. One cannot 
        keep everyone happy.Who is right and who is wrong? Each has a right to his own taste! Still, 
        one cannot dispute the fact that the great majority of our people, at 
        home as well as at the front, are working so hard because of the war that 
        when they get home in the evening they no longer have the energy to listen 
        to a two-hour concert. It is not because people are trying to repress 
        the seriousness of the war. We hardly need the radio to remind us of the 
        earnestness of the situation; we encounter that rather more than we would 
        like in any event. Even if one has worked as a professional for 12 or 
        14 hours, returning home dead tired, one may want to browse through a 
        book or a paper with no music at all, or at least music that makes no 
        demands. That is not an injustice to Beethoven or Bruckner, who 
        can be injured only if one attends to their music carelessly. It is no 
        different for workers or soldiers. Let us have no talk of cultural decline. 
        We can best serve occidental culture today by winning the war. Given the 
        heavy burdens we all bear today, a nice source of relaxation, whatever 
        the source, is like balsam on our wounds.We also want to speak openly about the question of whether the German 
        radio should broadcast so-called jazz music. We can flatly reject jazz, 
        if by it one understands a kind of music that entirely ignores or mocks 
        melody and depends only on rhythm, and in which the rhythm is carried 
        primarily by unpleasant sounding instrumental squawks that pain the ear. 
        This so-called music is despicable, because it is really not music at 
        all, but rather only an untalented, random playing with tones. On the 
        other hand, we can hardly maintain that the waltz of our grandfathers 
        and grandmothers is the pinnacle of musical development and that everything 
        following is bad. Rhythm is one of the foundations of music. We no longer 
        live in the Biedermeier era, but rather in a century whose melodies are 
        governed by the thousand-fold hum of machines and the sounds of motors. 
        Our war songs today are different than those of the World War. The radio 
        must take account of this if it is not to run the risk of being stuck 
        in frock coats. We do not want to offend anyone, but do feel obligated 
        to consider the reasonable requests of our fighting and working citizens.Of course, there will always be occasional detours. The German

      radio broadcasts from early in the morning to late at night.

      The normal person may speak two or three hours a day, and does

      not always reveal the wisdom of the ages. At least he has the

      advantage that only his wife or work mates hear him. The radio

      always speaks to a broad audience. If an announcer happens to

      put things in an unfortunate way, the telephone calls and letters

      pour in. Our desk, so to speak, is in the public square and everyone

      can look over our shoulder. We are not unhappy about that, the

      very opposite indeed. We are happy to be in the eyes of the whole

      public. Mr. Public, however, should not forget that the radio,

      unlike him, stands before the entire public and has the right

      to make an occasional mistake.After considerable effort, we have succeeded in broadcasting two programs 
        during prime listening hours. We will not take the time to go into the 
        difficulties that involved. But we are now in the fortunate situation 
        of making both sides happier. The Deutschland station will primarily broadcast 
        serious classical music, while the other station will provide light entertainment 
        in the evening. We have secured a wide range of leading musicians. Some 
        of them are giving up their previous engagements to devote themselves 
        almost full time to the radio. They are following precise guidelines to 
        meet as many reasonable requests as possible. Listeners to German radio 
        should know that we understand what they want. They tell us that openly, 
        thank God!, and we do not take it amiss, indeed we welcome it.We are not so far removed from the concerns of the people

      that we do not know where the shoe pinches. Our soldiers too

      are blunt in their letters or visits and tell us exactly what

      they want and do not want. We will do our best. We will spare

      no effort, no means, no expense. Good humor is important to the

      war effort. To maintain it, particularly where the burdens are

      high, is an urgent requirement of successful war leadership both

      at home and at the Front.There are some who go too far. Recently, for example, an unhappy listener 
        complained that an officer from the northern front had given a radio talk 
        in which he used a certain expression from Goethe’s “Götz von 
        Berlichingen.” The listener was most unhappy to hear the phrase in 
        the presence of his wife. “The fact that Goethe put this dubious 
        character with his vain coquetry on display is not an excuse in my eyes. 
        I wonder what pleasure the army or the Propaganda Ministry thinks it is 
        giving when it springs material of a morally objectionable nature on an 
        unsuspecting public, and this in an institution supervised by the government.”We do get such letters. We cannot make them happy, I fear. Shall we ask 
        General Dietl to send his soldiers on leave to an school for good manners? 
        Their language may have become a bit crude up there on the northern front. 
        He would laugh at us, and rightly so. We listened for an hour to this 
        splendid officer and were proud to hear that our soldiers to the north 
        bravely do their duty and more despite snow, ice and eternal night. When 
        he tells us that their only contact with the homeland, which they have 
        not seen for months and which is many thousands of kilometers distant, 
        is German radio, it reinforces our desire to broadcast things that will 
        cheer our solders up, dispel their sadness, and raise their spirits.War is a tough business. If our soldiers had not stood their ground this 
        past winter, the writer of this letter and his wife might have been not 
        only unprepared listeners, but also the viewers or the objects of things 
        very different than he complains about.Practicality is important. The German radio cannot satisfy everyone. 
        It should do as much as it can, paying most attention to those with the 
        greatest need. They are our soldiers and all those who must work hard 
        in the service of the fatherland. They are thankful for pleasant and entertaining 
        hours. The radio brings them pleasure, it is a good friend and comrade 
        in these difficult times, it cheers them up, it urges them on, it is a 
        constant comrade through the events of the war. It should educate and 
        clarify the great questions of the day. When necessary, it should raise 
        the hearts and touch the conscience. It should attack the enemy wherever 
        he may be. It should defend the interests of the fatherland when that 
        is necessary. One cannot always be in the best possible mood. We need 
        a love of the fatherland, enthusiasm and a sense of duty. The big events 
        happen anyway, we do not need to be reminded of them all the time. We 
        have to deal with the things of everyday life, which are often gray and 
        not at all lovely.The German radio should be a good companion. 