 The neutral press has been asking recently how it is that Mr. Churchill 
        has such influence on the English public and British public opinion. Despite 
        the worst reversals and the most demoralizing defeats, regardless of initial 
        suspicion, in the end they are captivated by this clever wordsmith and 
        accept his foolish policies and military leadership. The question is both 
        easy and hard to answer. The answer to the riddle is probably that although 
        Mr. Churchill lacks all strategic sense in both politics and military 
        leadership, he is an extraordinarily capable tactician. He is a virtuoso 
        at democratic party and press leadership, and therefore is the best of 
        the current English politicians, who as it is known are not gifted with 
        any great intelligence. His methods are as primitive as one can imagine. 
        His ideas are hardly original, and one can usually predict exactly what 
        he will say or do. It is always the same thing with him.When he began as British prime minister, he proclaimed the slogan that 
        he has held to regardless of political or military events, through setbacks 
        and defeats. It protects him against all criticism: “Blood, sweat 
        and tears.” One can fight a war to its bitter end under that slogan 
        without running the danger of being proven wrong. The people will hardly 
        recall the slogan in the midst of victory, and in defeat he can pretend 
        to be a prophet. Mr. Churchill is like a doctor who stands by the bed 
        of a seriously ill patient and says: “He will die.” If the patient 
        worsens, or even dies, he is proved right. He will not hesitate to remind 
        people of his excellent prognosis. And if the patient gets better or even 
        recovers, will one reproach the doctor that the patient got better despite 
        his bad condition?One cannot call such a practice particularly intelligent or

      original, but it does have its public. Up to the present moment,

      Mr. Churchill has carried it off. One does not need to be a prophet,

      one needs only to see through his trick to predict that, after

      the British Empire’s grave defeats in the past four weeks, he

      will say that he had expected and predicted nothing else. His

      farsightedness will be admired.We can predict what Mr. Churchill will say in about two months,

      and thus predict what he will have to say today. One of his methods

      is to paint the past in the blackest possible terms, then to

      discover a silver lining in the present. No one will be able

      to find a speech of his from, say, last August in which he sees

      gray. One can only see how serious he thought the situation was

      then by seeing what he says about it today. His practice is to

      make the past look worse that it was in order to make the present

      seem better than it is. He confesses things are going poorly,

      but claims they were even worse before! That is not true, but

      he depends on the public’s forgetfulness. They will not take

      the trouble to see what he actually said last August, and then

      compare it to what he says today.He claims that time is a traditional ally of his side. No

      one will claim that time has been a reliable ally of the English

      over the last two and a half years. England’s situation is far

      more precarious in 1942 than it was in 1939 or 1940. One also

      cannot imagine time working more in England’s favor in the future

      than it did in the past. Every month, indeed nearly every week,

      England loses one of its important holdings, and one must be

      remarkably foolish to think that England will have the strength

      during or after the war to regain its lost possessions.In 1939 Mr. Churchill looked forward to 1940. In 1940 he looked forward 
        to 1942. In 1942 he was thinking of 1945 as the year things would finally 
        go England’s way. One can see the constantly changing dates, and see that 
        the British prime minister clearly knows that Britain’s hands are tied. 
        It can no longer be saved by its power, only through a miracle.It was characteristic that in his last radio speech, Mr. Churchill was 
        unable to find even a single argument that referred to the British Empire. 
        He referred to the United Sates, the Soviet Union, and Chaing Kaishek. 
        He hardly mentioned Great Britain. The empire is apparently no longer 
        able to contribute to its own defense, despite the fact that it is a war 
        for its very existence, and that its prime minister provoked it without 
        any reason and without making the necessary preparations. This is clear 
        from the contributions London has made to the war, both in terms of blood 
        and labor. There is general displeasure among England’s allies at its 
        wholly inadequate contributions. Mr. Churchill had to respond, for example, 
        to public criticism in Australia by inventing some statistics. No one 
        believes him. One has to be amazed at the thoughtlessness, not to mention 
        cynicism, that began and carries out the war.That is fine with us. Our polemics are not intended to improve

      anything, only to make clear to the public that the riddle of

      Churchill is really not a riddle at all, but only a primitive

      conjurer’s trick. We realize that this unfortunate man is England’s

      last hope in its present situation. Despite all the concealed

      and open opposition in the House of Commons, he cannot be deposed

      because there is no one to take his place. He is the embodiment

      of the curse of the evil deed, which has to keep doing evil.

      If he falls, a good part of the British will to resist falls

      too. The man on the street in England probably senses dimly that

      this war is Churchill’s war, that he began it and is the one

      who has to carry it on to a bitter end for the Empire. That explains

      his appeal to national unity. He has a parliamentary vote of

      no confidence as his last resort, to be called upon when he is

      in deep trouble.He has a remarkably clever way of dealing with public unhappiness with 
        himself, his policies or his war leadership. He allows a kind of pseudo-criticism. 
        When the empire staggers under some blow, he retreats for a time to the 
        background and lets people complain. He opens the release valve, one might 
        say, to let the people’s rage dissipate.One should not think that happens against his will. He knows how to play 
        the game. He figures the loudest voices will shout themselves hoarse. 
        When a so-called Churchill crisis is at its peak, he pulls out a Such behavior would be unthinkable in any other country. A

      prime minister with so many failures, so many false predictions

      and windy promises, of which none came true, would be thrown

      out anywhere else. The English people like Churchill. He is its

      curse, its evil spirit, a man who has all the abilities to be

      Great Britain’s gravedigger.We could not wish for anyone better. If there is no way for

      the Axis powers to win other than through the collapse of the

      British Empire, Mr. Churchill is fine with us. The war’s first

      round did not end with a sudden knock out punch; there will be

      further rounds. We have to slowly but surely pound the enemy

      until he becomes groggy. Now and again the enemy will hope to

      be saved by the bell, but a new round will follow. The decisive

      moment will come when he is knocked down by a lightning blow.

      We do not know when that will happen, we only know that it will

      happen. A prime minister who leads an empire into such danger

      is a considerable advantage for the other side.We are happy Mr. Churchill is there. We certainly do not want

      to be rid of him. We want to keep him around, since he is the

      pathfinder for our total and radical victory. 