
by Joseph GoebbelsNonetheless, here as everywhere else, the simple is always the best. 
        The more plain and clear an apparatus is, the more smoothly it will work. 
        We Germans enjoy worldwide fame for being masters of organization. Because 
        we understand it so well, we sometimes do too much of a good thing. We 
        cannot imagine a proper life without organization. So to be sure of success 
        we frequently organize not only that which absolutely has to be organized, 
        but also that which can be organized. That is the mistake. Because we 
        are so systematic, we here and there lack the invigorating power of clever 
        improvisation. Everyone will agree that the nature of the war is different 
        in 1942 than it was in 1939. The tasks have grown enormously. The people 
        available to master them have hardly grown at all. They have increased 
        their eagerness to work, but their physical and spiritual strengths have 
        more demands placed on them in the third year of the war than in the first 
        year. The apparatus has become more important. Unfortunately, it has also 
        become more complicated, not simpler. This is where we must do something. 
      Many engaged in war production still carry too much ballast from peacetime.
         Instead of marching with a light pack, thus gaining mobility, they carry
         a sizable backpack filled with concerns, objections, and barriers. Instead
         of releasing initiative, they depend on paper. A critical matter is
        not  resolved by sending a memo to someone else and putting a carbon
        copy in  the files to provide oneself an alibi should something go wrong.
        It is  much better to pick up the phone and call the person, who is after
        all  a person as well and usually of good will. With a few friendly words,
         the matter can be resolved. That saves time, trouble, and annoyance,
        and  speeds things up, even if it will not provide future historians
        with the  black and white copy they might like. Half of success is usually
        courageous  initiative and fast action. He who gets to his goal first
        is the one who  starts first.What will happen if the war effort rests entirely on the crutch of files! 
        The leadership of the Reich is so overwhelmed with work that they lack 
        the time to read many of the documents, letters, and memos that reach their 
        desks. And by the way, it is not their duty to do the work of lower levels. 
        Their job is to set overall guidelines and see to it that they are carried 
        out. That is what one means by leadership, which is much different than 
        administration. And besides that, in many cases lower levels can solve 
        problems better than a central office. They have to function with relatively 
        small staffs. A moron is seldom distinguished by particularly brilliant 
        thinking.Don’t misunderstand us. A certain level of organization must always
        be  there if the state and administration are to function. But there
        is a  limit that one may not exceed without damaging the functioning
        of the  apparatus. If one goes so far as to have people checking punctuation,
         it becomes a curse. That is why we praise improvisation in times of
        crisis.  It produces not only ideas, but also facts. It gains the cooperation
        of  the people to solve big problems, spurs on each individual, awakens
        his  pride and enthusiasm, and thereby achieves successes that would
        ordinarily  be impossible. The hurdles and barriers that would stop the
        average bureaucrat  are quickly surmounted and one gallops onward.That is the way we always worked during the period of struggle We have to act in the same way in the war. What does not aid the cause 
        of victory is unimportant and has to be ignored. Delay aids the enemy. 
        That which is necessary has to be done quickly, or it is usually too late. 
        We have to get rid of old practices if they get in the way. We could do 
        some things in peace because we had the time and money. Things are different 
        in war. We all face hard necessity and will not succeed if we leave opportunities 
        unused.Say someone wants to buy a poodle and wishes to put an ad in a dog-fancier’s
        magazine. First he gets a request fill out an application to join the
        Poodle Club, part of the National Canine Society. He must answer all
        sorts of absurd questions. The poodle in question will be just as at
        home with a non-Christian, a Protestant, or a Catholic, at least for
        the duration of the war. Whatever the contributions the Poodle Club,
        part of the National Canine Society, may make to the state during peace,
        it should send its secretary in wartime to the armaments industry and
        put its press at the disposal of distant regiments on the Eastern front
        so that they can print their modest newspapers for the front lines.Forms and questionnaires should be reduced as much as possible. People
         have no time to write out their entire biography on some ridiculous
        form  to get something that is important to them. One should be reasonable
        and  require of them only that which is essential. Everyone can see that
        it  is necessary to ration meat, fat, bread, and other foodstuffs, and
        that  it requires an organization with cards, coupons, and ID cards.
        If there  are long lines outside tobacco shops, one has to ration cigars
        and cigarettes.  That is for the benefit of the whole public. But the
        more one is required  to ration the essentials, the more one should be
        willing to leave the  nonessentials to take care of themselves. Here
        one appeals to the discipline and good sense of the public. When someone
        tries to get more than his  share, one says a friendly word, and if that
        does not work, a friendly  kick in the rear.There are those who practically faint when they see a small speck on 
        their nicely polished boot. The act as if the state had nothing better 
        to do during the war than worry about their valued selves. They have no 
        idea how to help themselves. After it snows, they wait for the city to 
        sweep it up, and when it rains they almost try to step in the puddles 
        so as to be able to complain about the government. They have no sense 
        of the greatness of our day. They see everything from their perspective, 
        without any interest or enthusiasm. They are only a tiny percentage of 
        our population, and one would not need to pay them any heed if they did 
        not stink up the air around them. They sit in the tram and complain that 
        there is a war on that causes them so much trouble, that a car did not 
        signal its turn, that newspapers only have four pages, that they have 
        to give up their seats for women and wounded soldiers, that brakes squeal, 
        that a nice young girl stepped on the foot they had stuck way out, and 
        so on. These misanthropes think they are important, since they enjoy the 
        particular attention and concern of English propagandists. They are naive 
        enough to believe that such grumblers are typical Germans. How often have 
        we made clear to the English that they are wrong, and how often they have 
        had to pay for their mistakes!Our people are made of different stuff. They are intelligent, politically 
        alert, cool thinkers, realistic. They have both feet on the ground. When 
        something displeases them or rubs them the wrong way, they do not grumble, 
        but at most complain a bit. That is not so bad, as it clears the air. 
        Complaining is the bowel movement of the soul. We do not need to make 
        a capital offense of it. We get along with such people. They are just 
        like us. We complain too when something goes wrong or we make a mistake. 
        But that is that, and one gets back to work.Some advice: Work fast, carefully, reliably, and without much fuss. Do 
        not consider your own lesser or greater problems all that important. No 
        one feels sorry for you, because everyone is in the same boat. Do not 
        fight a war with paper. Toss aside everything that does not help us win. 
        In a few words: Just as you behaved in peace as if it were peace, now 
        behave in war as if it were war! 
  
