 Nothing is more characteristic of the Jewish-plutocratic view of the 
        world, life and history than its tendency to gradually but inevitably 
        transform all values in a negative direction. We recall enough examples 
        from the republican System Era in Germany Looking back, it all seems schizophrenic. It was more than that. Those 
        who used their glittering brilliance to spread such ideas to the public 
        did not believe them. To the contrary, they were only using them to slowly 
        but surely undermine their host people and to prepare it for the great 
        spiritual convulsion that we know all too well as Bolshevism. Its predecessor 
        is democracy. It, too, transforms all values in a way that in the end 
        leads to chaos.Today, we see the same process going on with the enemy. It

      is clear proof that the intellectual war leadership is primarily

      Jewish. One does not need to hear Radio London to detect their

      Semitic nature. It helps explain the otherwise inexplicable enemy

      habit of turning defeats and retreats into victories and battles

      of annihilation into catastrophic enemy defeats. They prepared

      insufficiently or not at all for the war. They suffer one defeat

      after the other. They see the loss of critical economic and strategic

      positions as a cause for optimism. They present plutocracy’s

      rapacity as a new social order. They burn down churches and murder

      a hundred thousand priests, yet are said to be saintly fighters

      for God. They put 180 million people in a physical and spiritual

      prison and condemn them to the lowest possible standard of living.

      All this they call paradise on earth.They value people in a similar way. English and American soldiers may 
        be defeated wherever they go, but are nonetheless vastly superior to the 
        enemy, both in weaponry and morality. Generals whose only skill is in 
        escaping the enemy, sometimes with their troops, other times with only 
        their families, are military heroes of the stature of Alexander, Caesar, 
        Frederick the Great, or Napoleon. True military geniuses on the other 
        hand, who stay by their troops even in the most desperate situations and 
        never think of surrender, but rather resist all the arrows of fate, hardly 
        are worth mentioning.The so-called General MacArthur, for example, is blown up

      as a true hero. In Germany, someone like General Scherer gets

      two or three lines in the OKW report. What are the differences

      between the two? Who is the hero, who the coward?In the east during the past winter, a German unit was cut off and held 
        firm for 107 days, with no outside support. The enemy attacked 128 times. 
        They replied with 10 counterattacks and 43 feints. The officers of the 
        surrounded unit reported with love and admiration that their general stayed 
        with them, and was there at any time for any soldier. He had a willing 
        ear for any of his soldiers at any time. He was a source of spiritual 
        strength during the period the unit was surrounded for both his officers 
        and men. The surrounded group had no supplies for three days, after which 
        they were supplied by exceedingly difficult and dangerous missions by 
        the Luftwaffe, which was an example of heroism and devotion to their comrades. 
        For most of the period, only piles of fruit tree branches provided their 
        defenses. They were attacked from all four directions. Our soldiers had 
        no tanks, whereas the Soviets repeatedly attacked with fresh tanks. They 
        had no quarters to keep them warm in the barbaric cold. Enemy artillery 
        pounded the remaining houses to rubble. The soldiers could not dig into 
        the frozen ground. There was not even any barbed wire.“We could not stop the enemy from firing on the buildings

      where we kept our wounded. We had to find some other place to

      put them. But many who were wounded still stayed in the front

      lines!” That is what General Scherer said in his plain and

      unemotional way.The OKW report of 6 May announced: “In the northern section

      of the Eastern Front, German troops carried out a planned and

      brilliant attack that reestablished connections with an important

      area previously surrounded by the enemy, The unit under the

      command of General Scherer had courageously held the position

      since 21.1.1942 despite numerous attacks by superior enemy forces.

      On the day it was relieved, half of the soldiers were wounded,

      and half were in action.The Jewish-democratic press took no notice of this. Now let

      us consider the other side:The Japanese attack on Corregidor began after the evacuation of Bataan 
        on 10 April and ended 26 days later with the capitulation of U.S. forces 
        on 6 May. On 10 April, 60,000 men on Bataan had surrendered. 3,500 escaped 
        to Corregidor. General MacArthur, their commander, had left Bataan as 
        early as 10 March with his family. Before leaving, he urged his troops 
        to display bravery, courage, and endurance. His wife gave the soldiers’ 
        wives the good advice to stay with their men, but followed her husband 
        when he left. From Australia, General MacArthur boasted that he would 
        enter Tokyo as the victor. The Japanese captured 12,495 of his soldiers 
        at Corregidor. The number of dead was all of 640. According to the reports, 
        there were enough supplies remaining to continue the battle for another 
        six months. There was no shortage of weapons or munitions.Corregidor is one of the strongest natural fortresses in the

      world. The entire island had strong defensive installations,

      munitions deport, command posts, etc. The underground passages

      that connect the defensive positions are as broad as a two-lane

      highway. $500 million had been spent during peacetime to build

      up the island. The USA public spoke of the island as the American

      Gibraltar. American experts thought it unconquerable. The island

      ruled out tanks, so the attack used artillery and air attacks.

      There were naturally bomb-proof clinics, operating rooms, etc.

      But the American soldiers nonetheless fell into Japanese hands.

      Why should they be braver than their general, who was safe in

      Australia and who was being grotesquely presented to the American

      public as the USA’s greatest living hero! The facts were reversed.

      A cowardly escape was transformed by an advertising campaign

      into a glorious deed. To us, that is simply incomprehensible.

      To put it mildly, a general like MacArthur by us would get the

      gentle rebuke that he had forgotten to get off the train in Hollywood.

      But the USA press declared the defense of Corregidor and Bataan

      as one of the bravest deeds in American history. The London “Times,”

      which has had considerable experience in praising strategic retreats,

      even said that Corregidor could only be compared to the battle

      of Thermophylae. A Boston radio station called the island fortress’s

      resistance a miracle.If that were not enough, the American Jewish press has been praising 
        the cowardly General MacArthur as a suitable candidate for the presidency 
        of the United States. Various U.S. cities are already unveiling monuments 
        in his honor. People wear buttons with his picture, and he has received 
        the highest honor England has to offer: an honorable position in Madam 
        Tussaud’s famous wax museum. The United Press reports that a body and 
        uniform will be added to his face.This gets us back to schizophrenia. One could say that all this grotesque 
        nonsense is understandable, since in the country of the blind the one-eyed 
        man is king, and that a land without a history of culture must have different 
        ideas of heroism than a nation with two thousand glorious years of history. 
        But the matter has its serious side. One has to ask just how far the Jews 
        can go in debasing and stupefying a people. The answer to the question 
        shows the danger facing modern humanity if it does not resist this intellectual 
        and spiritual process of decay. Here we have given a single example. The 
        spiritual warfare of our age provides dozens of other examples every day.Hero or film hero, that is the question. No person with any

      sense of history can have any doubt to whom the goddess of history

      will award the laurels at the conclusion of today’s great struggle.

      We have a long series of proud and famous names as opposed to

      the enemy’s artificially inflated figures. They serve the most

      brilliant military leader of our history, and behind them march

      millions of German soldiers who have been tested a thousand times

      in battle and victory, in hard times and in privation.They will live in the history of our nation, and their names

      will be beacons to coming generations. The momentary fame of

      American film heroes will have melted along with the wax in Madame

      Tussaud’s wax museum. 