 The enemy at the moment is nowhere so threatened as at sea.
      One no longer hears boasting claims from Churchill and Roosevelt
      that the danger of German U-boats has been overcome. To the contrary,
      an eloquent silence has replaced those premature statements. Now
      and again it is broken by a worried voice saying that the sea
      war has entered its most acute and dangerous phase, and that it
      has become the cardinal issue for the English-American war effort.For the first time since September 1939, a leading London newspaper
        has  written that England could lose the war if things continue as they
        are  now, and a large group of U.S. newspapers seems to have agreed that
        Germany  is sinking more ships than America and England can build, but
        that fewer  U-boats are being sunk than the Germans are capable of building.
        That  is a rather understated description of the danger now facing the
        Anglo-Saxon  powers and one can understand the vehement requests on
        the enemy public’s  side to finally tell the truth about the real state
        of the tonnage war  rather than settling for broad generalities or clever
        numerical fantasies.We predicted such a development. When Mr. Churchill announced
      15 months ago that data on the number and tonnage of ships sunk
      would no longer be published for security reasons, we knew what
      it meant. The Admiralty’s argument was too transparent. What
      can they conceal from our U-boats, which generally know exactly
      what they have sunk! England can conceal from us only ships sunk
      by mines or acts of God. Releasing the figures, which we know,
      would only increase to a great degree the concern on the part
      of the British-American public.The sea war has entered a critical phase for England and the U.S.A. English 
        papers recently commented that the control of the seas is no theoretical 
        matter, but rather a matter of daily struggle, and that the most powerful 
        fleet of warships is of little value when it no longer fulfills its purpose, 
        namely keeping England’s vital sea and transport routes open. Unlike us, 
        England depends on the freedom and security of the seas. We meet our needs 
        primarily from the European continent itself. England needs essential 
        supplies from its Empire and from distant countries. If the sea routes 
        are broken and England does not succeed in restoring them, the gradual 
        paralysis of the British motherland is assured. The collapse of the English 
        war effort is only a matter of time.We have no illusions in the matter. The tonnage war is not
      the only means to checkmate England, but it is one of the most
      important. One can therefore understand why Churchill and Roosevelt
      are doing all in their power to conceal the situation from their
      publics on grounds of military security, and why they are working
      feverishly to find ways and means to combat the German U-boat
      danger and to reduce the sunk tonnage to a halfway acceptable
      level. Since that is much harder to do in practice than it is
      in propaganda, they are depending first of all on propaganda.Mr. Churchill is doubtless better in this regard than Mr.
      Roosevelt; he sets the tone. Nothing is admitted that can be
      plausibly denied. Mostly one says something only when the crew
      of a sunken ship arrives in a neutral harbor and reliable witnesses
      report the event. They make a gesture or two. When the cases
      add up over a short period and disconcert the English or the
      U.S. public to the point that they demand an explanation, Mr.
      Churchill or Mr. Roosevelt have one of their spokesmen, who is
      no longer able to minimize the U-boat danger, talk about the
      enormous ship-building program on both sides of the Atlantic
      that will soon replace the sunken ships.We expect, as the situation becomes more critical in the coming
      weeks and months, new propaganda tricks from Churchill and Roosevelt
      to confuse the Anglo-Saxon peoples and divert them from the threatening
      danger. They will certainly try bluffs, and will attempt to ridicule
      our figures with their own fantastic statistics. We know these
      methods, and are ready for them. The people of the enemy states
      will demand an accounting. Their governments are not in the position
      to give them one without admitting to a deadly danger. What alternative
      do they have but to minimize the situation, to cast doubts on
      our accurate figures or to try to divert the debate to another
      topic? The world public sees too clearly their responsibility
      for the war; they cannot admit failures in any area. They have
      no choice but to save face, lest they face the risk of being
      chased out of office in shame by their own peoples.Back on 25 February, the We are fully aware of the difficulties and possibilities of
      the U-boat war. The brave crews on our U-boats have a difficult
      job. The homeland hears of their successes so often that they
      risk being taken for granted. Nothing could be more wrong. The
      enemy knows how important the battle is, and will do everything
      it can to reduce the rapidly rising curve of U-boat losses to
      the point where it is at least not critical. Other factors in
      the U-boat war include the weather and the seasons.Only when one keeps in mind the relatively small number of
      battle-tested young men who carry this burden and the decisive
      significance for the enemy of open sea lanes, can one understand
      the situation. Rarely in the course of battle between nations
      have so few men played so decisive a role. Each U-boat that leaves
      our harbors to sail against the enemy is a masterpiece of German
      shipbuilding, and its crew includes the best of our German youth
      who are struggling heroically for the freedom of our people.
      This world-famous German weapon has earned the admiration of
      the whole world, even of the enemy. Our U-boats are the primary
      reason why Germany has not been blockaded in this war, but instead
      has imposed a counter-blockade on the enemy. Our U-boat men can
      be proud that they have plunged the enemy into panic and that
      a good part of our certainty of victory rests in their brave
      endeavors.We know precisely what enemy countermeasures are, and which
      we have to take seriously, which not. One can understand the
      enemy’s war strategy only in the context of the general situation.
      Churchill and Roosevelt are living from hand to mouth. They can
      no longer tell the truth to their own people, the neutrals, or
      us. They are pursued by a thousand hounds, and can hardly say
      things as they are. In the tonnage war, too, they are in a tight
      spot. They can no longer tell their own people the depressing
      facts, since the war has taken a direction entirely different
      than they expected. They are forced to save face, to cover up
      their losses, and to invent victories that in reality do not exist.
      We are facing hard-core sinners who will give up only when they
      have no other alternative. That will not be tomorrow or the day
      after. They must be dealt with until they are flat on the ground.Public opinion in England and the U.S.A. alternates between
      wild optimism and deep pessimism. Occasionally newspapers loyal
      to the government ask the reason for the widespread illusions
      of the Anglo-Saxon peoples. Naturally, they cannot say that their
      own lies and swindles have given their peoples a false and misleading
      picture of the situation. They protest against the illusions
      of the man in the street without given a clear reason why such
      illusions are unreasonable. The talk in circles, and an end to
      their witches’ Sabbath is not yet in sight.We have no choice but to increase our war effort and keep
      on the narrow path, taking enemy boasting for just what it is.
      Any war effort naturally has its limits. It depends on facts,
      not wishes. The war itself has twists and turns that one must
      prepare for as best one can. He does best who keeps a realistic
      view of the situation and who is diverted neither by setbacks
      or successes from his goal. We know precisely where we are and
      where we are going. The enemy side knows neither. As a result,
      they will encounter the most unpleasant surprises in coming weeks
      and months.Death is sailing the seas with his eye focused on our enemies. He reaps 
        a terrible harvest of their ships, men, and material. Churchill and Roosevelt 
        cannot do anything about it by speeches and statements, only through action. 
        But that is what under present conditions they are unable to do. 