 The hard and pitiless battle for Sevastapol, as well as the recent broad 
        offensive operations of the German army, have reopened a lively debate, 
        above all in the neutral press. Similar to that of the past winter, it 
        is on the issue of the so-called Russian soul. The spiritual as well as 
        the territorial boundaries between Asia and Europe have always interested 
        Western Europeans. It is not to be denied that the ethnic mixture that 
        we called Russia before 1917 and the Soviet Union thereafter has been 
        a riddle to our part of the world. That had nothing to do with tsarism 
        then or Bolshevism today. It simply has to do with the fact that the various 
        peoples joined together in this monster of a nation are not a peopleThe many sides of the Russian soul which appears so complex and contradictory 
        to us are in reality nothing but the reflection of the various peoples 
        who are a part of it. It would be a mistake to evaluate it by the standards 
        of Western Europe. What we call Russia has always been a collective mass. 
        Only a small portion of it has made history. Earlier it was the tsarist 
        upper class, today the Bolshevist-Jewish ruling clique. The broad masses 
        of peasants and workers were only tools, having themselves no part in 
        historical events.The peoples of the Soviet Union live at a level of brutish primitiveness 
        that we can hardly imagine. An exhibition called “It still seems astonishing that the Soviet army has put up resistance 
        against our troops that they have not encountered in previous campaigns. 
        They fight with a stolid, almost bestial determination, and sometimes 
        show a contempt of death that is more than remarkable. Participants in 
        the Battle of Sevastopol relate stories of the resistance of the Soviet 
        troops that need explanation if they are not to unsettle a large part 
        of the public.The Russians throughout their history have always shown a

      particularly stubborn and tough manner of defense, while never

      being particularly gifted at offense. Their national character

      has a defensive nature. They are stolid and animalistic. They

      are accustomed to a hard and impoverished existence, and therefore

      do not hold on to life all that strongly. The average person

      has less worth than a bicycle. A rapid birthrate quickly replaces

      any losses. They have a type of primitive toughness that one

      cannot call bravery. It is entirely different. Bravery is a kind

      of spiritual courage. The toughness with which the Bolshevists

      defended their bunkers in Sevastapol was more a bestial drive,

      and nothing could be more mistaken than to assume that it was

      the result of Bolshevist views or education. The Russians were

      always like that, and will likely always remain so. It is also

      easier to throw a life away when there is no promise to it than

      when, even at the moment of danger, a distant paradise still

      seems to beckon.One does not need to speak of the enormous danger that the

      armed uprising of such stolid millions is for Germany and all

      of Europe. For attacking soldiers, the motive of the defenders

      is not particularly relevant. The methods the Bolshevist commissars

      use to drive their troops to the last measure of resistance are

      not really all that important for the course of battle. It is

      however important to know it to prevent false impressions. Bolshevism

      is a master at exploiting the Slavic national soul. Only in Russia

      was this dreadful experiment possible. It required the primitive

      and bestial dullness of the peoples forming the Soviet Union,

      as well as their limited social and economic expectations. Its

      methods were then implemented with a consistency that amazed

      the observer.Our first images of Bolshevism were not exaggerated, but understated. 
        They were cast into the shadows by reality. We will not even mention the 
        so-called social achievements of the Soviet system, which in comparison 
        with ours can provoke only laughter or shock. It has hardly a matter of 
        taste, however, to be astonished by the fact that Bolshevist propaganda 
        largely succeeded in sealing the masses of Russian workers and peasants 
        off from the world and persuading them by stupid repetition that they 
        were living in a paradise on earth. Independent judgment requires the 
        opportunity to compare. That is ruled out for them. The workers and peasants 
        of the Soviet Union are like the man imprisoned in a dark dungeon for 
        25 years, who may easily be persuaded that a kerosene lantern is the sun.The political commissar has a function in such a system that is absolutely 
        incomprehensible for us. He wields the whip, both among the masses and 
        in the army. He has full power over life and death, and his own head is 
        on the line as well. The stolid masses are at his disposal. They are forced 
        to choose between accepting it all or facing jail at the least or bestial 
        death at the worst. There is nothing like an intelligentsia remaining 
        to put up any resistance. The system has the resources to eliminate it 
        at the earliest stages. The whole country is covered by a spy system that 
        misuses children to spy on their parents. What choice do the stolid and 
        hopeless masses have but to obey with the fatalism that lies within their 
        racial soul, to give themselves up to their fate? What choice does a soldier 
        in a bunker have when the commissar is standing there with a drawn pistol, 
        and systematic Jewish propaganda has persuaded him that becoming a prisoner 
        means not only death, but gruesome torture?That really has nothing to do with bravery as we understand it. Even 
        this system, when it faces the final test, will bend before the superior 
        force of manly combativeness. The Bolshevists had a great advantage in 
        their defensive positions, yet they capitulated after 25 days. In the 
        end, their system lacks the free personal will that springs from the individual 
        fighting spirit. It overcomes difficulty and danger not through terror 
        and threats, but through individual bravery. Certainly international Jewry 
        with its organized stolid and malleable human material is a dangerous 
        enemy. Once it is used up, there will be no threat left for us to face. 
        We would have to doubt the quality of our race, the goodness of our soldiers, 
        and the fighting power of our worldview and principles if we even for 
        a moment doubted that we can break this danger.It is a part of the fate of the German race that at critical points it 
        must defend itself against the threat from the East. It is especially 
        dangerous today, bound as it is to the ruthless infernal goals of Jewish 
        intellectualism. Without doubt it was a near fatal threat not only to 
        Germany, but to all of occidental culture, when Jewry transformed the 
        physical capacities of the East into a monstrous and armed Soviet military, 
        aimed at Germany and all of Europe. The red commissar is defending his 
        world tby holding together his attack on us. We must destroy his system 
        if we want to live free from danger in the future.This explanation goes beyond the realm of Philistine discussions

      of the so-called Russian soul. The old measures are inadequate

      to things of such an enormous spiritual and philosophical scale.

      The gigantic battle on the Eastern Front is shaking a world that

      must fall if we are to have any kind of a national future. The

      bestial brutality with which the enemy is waging war is proof

      of the enormity of the danger facing us. Everything is truly

      at stake. One cannot imagine the consequences if that system

      were to be implemented here. It would introduce Europe’s total

      domination by international Jewry. Our people would be subjected

      to the stolid brutality of a primitive race and would lose its

      most valuable aspects. London could only welcome such a thing.

      They have an opponent they are unable to defeat by their own

      strength, as the development of the war shows.One therefore understands why we Germans have limited patience for intellectual 
        discussions of a so-called Russian national soul, which must be thoroughly 
        investigated in order to uncover its presumed secrets. There are no mysteries 
        here, only facts. We are battling a world power that threatens our national 
        life. The war is hard reality for us, not a philosophical question. We 
        see its ghastly origins, and our soldiers are fighting for our holiest 
        possessions. We do not underestimate our opponent. Still, we are as always 
        persuaded that here too the higher race will triumph over the lower one, 
        regardless of what infernal means it uses to escape its deserved fate.We know well that Europe would be lost if the Axis powers

      did not defend it. We have given our part of the world renewed

      youth. The attack from the East against its life and culture

      will fail because we will meet its stolid power with an offensive

      resistance that draws its strength from the intelligence of the

      leadership and the vitality of Europe’s young races.As so often before, this time, too, the surging nomads of the East will 
        be driven back to their steppes. That is the purpose of our battle against 
        the Soviet Union. 