 One is never sure which of two characteristics is more prominent

      in the American national character and therefore of the greater

      significance: naivete or a superiority complex. When for example

      they say things about our region, our surprise at their ignorance

      is surpassed only by annoyance at their stupid insolence. The

      less they know about a matter, the more confidently they speak.

      They really believe that Europeans are eagerly waiting to hear

      from them and follow their advice. They took our strategic decision

      not to discuss their shallow culture before the war as a sign

      of admiration. Their greatest technical accomplishments are refrigerators

      and radios. They cannot believe that there are cultural values

      that are the result of centuries of historical development, which

      cannot simply be bought. It was no bad joke when, after the war,

      they bought the ruins of German castles and moved them stone

      by stone to the U.S.A. They really thought that they had purchased

      a piece of national history embodied in stone, and were naive

      enough to think that mocking laughter from Europe was respect

      for the wealth that enabled them to buy what their own tradition

      and culture lacked.A book by Scottish author Eric Linklater titled Only in the U.S.A. could the wife of the president receive

      a thousand dollar honorarium at a charity gathering, and take

      the money without bothering to see if the gathering for the benefit

      of those injured in the war would thereby run a deficit. The

      New York newspapers recently reported this. Mrs. Roosevelt even

      appears for a healthy fee as a fashion model, showing the latest

      furs to an admiring public. She writes a column for a large number

      of U.S.A. newspapers titled “My Day,” in which she

      tells how she spent the previous day, what she wore, which cocktail

      parties she attended, whom she met, and what she plans to do

      the next day.We really have the wrong image of America. Hollywood films

      are mostly to blame, since they present the life style of the

      upper ten thousand, which most Americans themselves experience

      though films. American observers waver between unlimited admiration

      and deep contempt. Superficial observers admire it, real experts

      always hold it in contempt. There is certainly much that is at

      first glance impressive in this new part of the world still in

      its adolescence. The height of the skyscrapers is, however, no

      measure of the level of culture. This land that wants to protect

      intellectual freedom in the ancient cultures of Europe and Asia

      itself has no permanent theater or opera. A private concern like

      New York’s Metropolitan Opera survives in peacetime only on German

      and Italian operas, and had to close its doors for financial

      reasons once the war began.The U.S.A. has no poets, no painters, no architects or composers of world 
        stature. Whatever culture it has is borrowed from Europe. The land lacks 
        its own language, culture, and civilization. It has borrowed everything, 
        generally debasing it by Americanizing it, never improving it. Americanization 
        is a kind of kitschification that gives every cultural value an American 
        stamp, turning a mature language into slang, the waltz into jazz, a work 
        of literature into a crime story.If the Americans lacked money, they would probably be the

      most despised people in the world. Superiority is nowhere as

      annoying as with them. They naturally build the best airplanes

      and tanks, and by the hundreds of thousands. They have the best

      generals and soldiers, and their defeats are only proof of their

      intelligence in destroying the bravery of their enemies. Their

      president is a demigod, though he led the nation into an economic

      catastrophe from which he saw no way out other than war. They

      promised Europe a savior in 1917 and sent them a Wilson in 1919.

      They will repeat this great betrayal today if we do not prevent

      it. In short, it is a nation still a long way from being a nation,

      and a people that lacks the most important prerequisite for being

      a people, a clear style of life.According to official American statistics, there are 190 Protestant and 
        430 Catholic churches in New York, but 1000 synagogues. What else should 
        one expect of a city with a Jewish mayor who recently attempted at a reception 
        for foreign journalists to explain European problems in the jargon of 
        the gangsters! The Jews have given their stamp not only to this city, 
        but the whole of public life. The president is surrounded by Jewish advisors 
        and his wife clears the way for her Jewish friends to enter the administration 
        and war office. One feels the need to wash one’s hands after reading American 
        newspapers. They are filled with intellectual filth, daily printing such 
        stories as an announcement that a number of prisoners have formed “Fighters, 
        Inc.,” and offered their services to the president. They were ready 
        to fight in the ranks of the Allies against aggression. Mr. Roosevelt 
        happily accepted their offer.Can anyone name a single country in Europe where the public would accept 
        such a thing? There was not a word of protest in the U.S.A. The same president 
        recently told a press conference that a surprisingly large number of young 
        people were unsuited for service in the army and the marines because they 
        could not read or write. Is it any surprise that a cunning and demagogic 
        leadership can do what it wants with a nation of such an educational level? 
        At a time when U.S. forces experience one defeat after another and its 
        ships sail the world’s oceans only at the risk of death, they naively 
        announce that they are producing a million victory medals for American 
        soldiers to wear as a sign of their worth when they occupy Germany. American 
        officers are studying at Southern University such matters as civil administration, 
        the laws of war, and related matters. Their task is to return to good 
        order the territories now occupied by the Axis powers.So far, not a single U.S.A. soldier has set foot on foreign

      soil, but many have been chased back to U.S. soil in disgrace.

      After a siege of two or three weeks, an army of 60,000 men with

      munitions and food sufficient for six months gave up, leaving

      all of 600 dead behind. That does not bother its brilliant leadership

      in the least. Of course, it does not have a citizenry able to

      defend itself against such silly illusions. Everything is junk

      and make-believe. Everything is sensational. Public opinion can

      be kneaded like dough. It is a paradise for cunning Jews and

      businessmen who terrorize the people while flying the flag of

      democracy and citing Roosevelt’s Four Freedoms. Only in the U.S.A.

      is it possible for criminals to become world famous gangsters,

      the guests of mayors and police chiefs, who give interviews for

      journalists from newspapers with circulations in the millions

      in which they give their opinions on the questions of the day.We would not say anything if the U.S.A. were aware of its intellectual 
        and moral defects and was trying to grow up. But it is too much when it 
        behaves in an impudent manner toward a part of the earth with a few thousands 
        years of glorious history behind it, attempting to teach it moral and 
        intellectual lessons, whether out of innocence or a complete lack of genuine 
        culture and learning. We can forgive the mistakes of youth, but this degree 
        of arrogance gets on one’s nerves.We therefore have no appreciation for the Americanism that can be found 
        in certain of our circles. We fail to see why we as the leading musical 
        nation in the world should borrow even a single note from the U.S.A. We 
        have a level of culture and civilization that is denied to most Americans. 
        One who understands this can hardly have much sympathy for what they understand 
        as culture and civilization. Although we affirm the technical achievements 
        of our age, we see behind them an intellectual strength that grows from 
        the roots of our people. Machines are a means to an end, not an end in 
        themselves. As much as we appreciate the achievements of modern civilization 
        and use them to improve life, we know that they are not the sole meaning 
        of life. There are national values that are the result of centuries of 
        history and tradition. They cannot be purchased, only built by the labor 
        of generations.In any event, we prefer not to be buried in America. In the midst of 
        the confusions of the day, we still have the ability to distinguish truth 
        from falsehood and gold from floss. We are not impressed by American big 
        talk and orgies of numbers. We know well enough that the trees do not 
        grow as high as heaven on the other side of the Atlantic either. As far 
        as God’s country goes, Europeans discovered it and give it life even today. 
        Were it left to its own resources, it would soon return once more to desert 
        and prairie, as wide and as empty as the souls of its people. 