by Joseph GoebbelsThere is probably no one in the warring nations who has not, either publicly 
        or privately, thought about what his people, our part of the world, and 
        the world itself will be like after this war is over. For most, their 
        ideas are more the result of fantasy or wishful thinking than of sober 
        and realistic consideration of reality. Those who bear no responsibility 
        have the prerogative to think about life and the world however they wish. 
        Those in government are different. They must represent the whole interest 
        of their people, not only the interests of the present, but even more 
        importantly those of the future. Their wishes and actions must follow 
        rules that take account of the most varied factors affecting the life 
        of their nation, as well of the nations in their sphere of influence. 
        The deeper significance of the war is to bring about a new arrangement 
        in the fundamentals of existence of the peoples. All its actions must 
        be guided by this fact, if it is not to lose its foundations and its goals. 
      One cannot accuse the German government of ever violating this principle 
        in the course of the war. It has carefully avoided laying out broad theoretical 
        war goals, always limiting itself to fighting for the freedom, independence, 
        and vital living space of its people. Most of its military actions were 
        forced upon it. Its offensives always had their origins in a desire to 
        defend the nation. After defeating an enemy, it made reasonable demands 
        that were both practical and absolutely necessary. That also explains why Germany has waged, and is waging, the war without 
        any desire for revenge. Super-fanatic patriots are never heard here. For 
        us, the war was and is too serious a matter to want to entrust it to crazy 
        hot heads. No one could prove that we have proclaimed as our war goal 
        the dissolution, destruction, or economic or physical liquidation of a 
        people that our weapons have defeated. For example, though the French 
        along with the British were responsible for forcing us into the hardest 
        war of our history, and although the Treaty of Versailles gave us reason 
        to settle some accounts with our western neighbor, our terms at the second 
        Compiégne were so moderate as to be almost the opposite of what 
        friend and foe had expected of us.The reasons for that are clear. Aside from the fact that any other approach 
        would have been inconsistent with our national character, we also feel 
        that during war we are in a certain way responsible for the coming peace. 
        We never forget that after this drama, the European peoples will have 
        to live next to each other, even after a complete re-ordering of their 
        interests. War is not normal, but rather abnormal. The less one allows it 
        to be diverted into pure resentment, the more clear and transparent its 
        course will be. Anger and revenge are usually bad counselors. One can 
        hate without being overcome by hate. He who loses his nerve and falls 
        into war polemics is almost always wrong. This is what separates our Anglo-Saxon 
        opponents not only from us, but from the entire civilized world.One can argue about whether the English and Americans, along with their 
        Jewish blowhards, were forced by domestic political reasons to reveal 
        so openly their secret intentions toward us. Whatever the reason, it hardly 
        needs to be said that their propaganda has done them serious harm, both 
        in the world and above all with respect to our own people. It may be that, 
        given their eternal military defeats, the English and Americans need to 
        let off steam occasionally with outbursts of rage and revenge. No one 
        can doubt, however, that we can only welcome their revelations.Several months ago, the British public was occupied with the well-known 
        theses of the notorious Lord Vansittart, which maintained that Germany 
        had been treated too mildly by the Treaty of Versailles, and that it must 
        be entirely beaten down after this war. People in London discussed whether 
        it was advisable to proclaim these plans in public, within hearing range 
        of the German people, or whether one could bend the Germans to submission 
        through infamous propaganda like that of the past. No one realized that 
        this discussion was unprofitable at the moment, and hardly advisable given 
        the current propaganda aimed at the German people. One did not argue about 
        Vansittart’s doctrines themselves, but rather only when and how they should 
        be publicly discussed. Has anyone ever seen anything like that on our 
        side? Our debates about the war focus only on critical matters. We 
        discussed only what was useful and necessary, without ever falling into 
        overheated considerations of revenge.A few days ago, the official English news agency Reuters carried a cable 
        from an overseas émigré newspaper supported by the British government. 
        It proposed that all German children between two and six years of age 
        should be taken from their mothers and sent abroad for 25 years. This 
        would lead the Germans, it said, to forget their nationality. A mixed 
        ethnic brew would result that could no longer be called German. Had Reuters 
        not carried this nonsense, one might have done the English government 
        the favor of assuming that this outrageous proposal was the result of 
        a deranged mind.In view of what we have discussed, that is no longer possible. Rather, 
        an organ subject to the British government let slip in a careless moment 
        what the opposite side really thinks and plans. Nor should one assume 
        that it is not as bad as it looks. The German people learned what are 
        enemies are capable of after the Treaty of Versailles. The blood of even 
        the last German froze in his veins when he learned what would come of 
        the so-called peace promised by Wilson’s humanitarian phrases. We are firmly convinced that the English and the Americans, and above 
        all their Jewish rulers from behind the scenes, plan an even more grotesque 
        intensification of what they did before if they succeed once more in overcoming 
        us. If German propaganda had done nothing else during the war than to 
        make that clear to the whole German people, if would have done great service. 
        It may be that there is still some stupid fool or another on our side 
        who, because he is so dumb, thinks himself smart enough to believe that 
        such monstrosities are only the result of overheated British war fantasies. 
        We must admit we lack the ability to believe that. It is enough for us 
        that our people fell prey to it once before. No German wants a repetition 
        of that dark chapter. We prefer to trust German weapons rather than British 
        promises. We are convinced that Lord Vansittart, not Mr. Churchill, is 
        speaking the truth. We think the Atlantic Charter and empty Reuters dispatches 
        are English diversions. In any event, we do not want to see history repeat 
        itself for the German people. We are persuaded that that would mean its 
        end.We naturally know full well that the English will never have the chance 
        to carry out their plans of revenge against us, but do think it our national 
        duty to at least make our people aware of their intentions. It is good 
        when one knows not only will happen if one wins, but also what will happen 
        if one loses. That does not make one a coward, but rather courageous. We can 
        only be thankful to those British circles who betray so openly and plainly 
        their intentions. They do much of the work for us. We do not need to remind 
        our people of what happened at the end of the World War. The English are 
        kind enough to tell us frankly and openly what they plan to do to us should 
        German stupidity enable them, contrary to all expectations, to win once 
        again.When this war began, we were aware of where it would lead. Just as during 
        our fight for power, we burned all the bridges behind us, looking only 
        forward, never to the rear. When a people is fighting for its national 
        life and its ethnic future, it must be prepared to throw everything it 
        has on fate’s balance. That may sound hard, but harder still is the phrase 
        “too late!” that follows a missed opportunity. People with no 
        sense of history may think that we are cursed by history; we think that 
        we enjoy its blessing, since the door is open to our people’s great national 
        future, and thus the path to a broader scope for our future life. That 
        takes sweat, work, and blood. But when did victory ever come without them?We are in the fourth year of war. It has reached previously unimaginable 
        dimensions. Its prospects and possibilities have also increased. It has 
        been hard and pitiless, giving us nothing as a gift. More than ever, we 
        are gripped by its ever-increasing demands, from which only the most brutalized 
        spirits try to escape. We have become a community in the best sense of 
        the word. We know exactly what our opportunities are. We must also learn 
        to see the dangers we face. We have the strength to overcome any crisis, 
        if we only use that strength. The more radically we face the demands of 
        the war, the sooner we will master them. We face an opponent who will 
        use every means to defeat us. We therefore must use every means to defend 
        ourselves. What does it matter what we lose when everything is at stake! 
        Peoples, like individuals, are strongest when they are fighting for their 
        lives. That is our situation today.We do not take the occasional outbursts of British-Jewish rage all that 
        seriously, giving them no more attention than they deserve. Over the past 
        20 years, our opponents have so often prophesied our dreadful end that 
        we have become perfectly immune to them. We see such outbursts not only 
        as expressions of rage and a desire for revenge, but also of impotence. 
        We have always seen through our opponents. But perhaps there may be one 
        person or another who, in a careless moment, is inclined to take their 
        humanitarian phrases more seriously than their Old Testament outbursts 
        of hatred. Such people will be brought back to reality by the Reuters 
        dispatch mentioned above. The enemy himself has made it clear to them 
        that war is the worst of all possible times for stale sentimentality.In the live of nations, justice is always the result of power. Weapons 
        are the best defense against rape. The leadership of a nation should entrust 
        the fate of the nation only to its own strength. We have sinned against 
        this fundamental principle often enough to avoid wanting to repeat it.Our women know what their sons are fighting for, and our wives know what 
        their husbands are fighting for. Each worker and each farmer is more 
        certain than ever before of why he is swinging his hammer or standing 
        behind his plow. Millions of children look to us. The enemy sees our future 
        in them, and wants to destroy them.So let us get to work! The enemy has told us what is at stake.