 My German Comrades!The year 1943 is nearing its end. It will never be forgotten
      by us who fought and worked and lived through it. It was the
      most difficult year of the war so far, one that subjected us
      to great moral and material tests. It gave us the task of holding
      that which we conquered in our glorious offensives of the earlier
      war years, which is the foundation of our final victory, and
      of defending it against the raging storm of our enemies with
      courage and without wavering. In large part we succeeded. We
      have had, it is true, to accept losses and setbacks, but they in
      no way are decisive for the outcome of the war, nor are their
      causes to be sought in any failure in our morale or materiel
      during this long war. The cowardly betrayal of the Italian king
      and a clique of generals cost the Axis camp the economic and
      military strength of an ally, and it could not be avoided that
      the general war situation was affected thereby. We had to pull
      back our lines in the East as well as in the South. The resulting
      withdrawals of our troops gave the enemy side a welcome opportunity
      to speak of the military collapse of the Reich, or even to make
      overhasty reports of approaching victory. They were fundamentally
      mistaken.Our war position has indeed become tighter than it was at the end of 
        1942, but it is more than sufficient to guarantee us a certain final victory. 
        One need only compare the successes of the other side with what they had 
        hoped for to realize that our prospects of full victory have not been 
        affected by the events of this year. The English and Americans are not 
        at the Brenner Pass, but rather far from Rome. The Bolshevist offensive 
        army has not been able to reach the German Reich’s border as they wanted 
        and planned to; our army in the East instead is offering bitter resistance 
        far from our critical territory and interests. The amphibious operations 
        Churchill promised have not occurred, and their constantly promised arrival 
        will meet a battle-ready German Wehrmacht wherever they may come. In a 
        word: the loss of an ally on our fighting front presented us with great 
        and sometimes dangerous difficulties, but we have dealt with them. That 
        in the end is the important thing. The outcome of a war is dependent not 
        on wishes and intentions, but only on facts. The enemy did not succeed 
        in the past year in affecting in a serious way our war effort in any critical 
        area. If the great test of a war is that it brings challenges that can 
        only be met by using all moral and material resources, the German people 
        passed the test in the past year. It will doubtless go down in history 
        as the most glorious of this great struggle for our existence. It is true 
        that we looked back on more glorious victories in the first years of the 
        war that we do this time. This year we had to prove ourselves. We had 
        to prove to ourselves and to history that we could overcome great, even 
        the greatest, difficulties, that we would not fail, but rather that our 
        courage and our tough endurance are growing, and that we did. The year 
        1943 was thus a hard but proud year for us. It deserves a just evaluation. 
        We have withstood it. The enemy broke his teeth on our military and moral 
        resistance. What that means for the future of the war cannot yet be seen. 
        That is true above all of the Eastern Front. Our soldiers there have survived 
        a test of their steadfastness in the past year that puts everything that 
        came before in the shadows. The OKW Report summarizes in two or three 
        lines  heroism that cannot be put in words. It is frightening to realize 
        that we Germans on our own, with but a few small but brave allies, are 
        waging hot and bitter battles to protect a part of the world that in large 
        part has not deserved it. Each fighting German soldier is therefore closer 
        to our hearts than a thousand overly clever newspaper writers of a certain 
        press that at best have good advice, but scarcely find a word of recognition 
        and thanks for the heroic and sacrificial struggle that our Wehrmacht 
        is also fighting for the preservation of the life of their peoples. The 
        danger of Bolshevism, which threatens all of Europe, could be successfully 
        resisted in the past year. Our troops have surpassed themselves. If the 
        Soviets believed they could drive to our borders, the most recent battles 
        in the wide spaces of the East have probably taught them how vain these 
        hopes were.It will forever be the greatest shame of the century that England and 
        the United States joined with Bolshevism in their hate-filled battle for 
        military success against our venerable continent. They will also not gain 
        victory; to the contrary, at most they will ruin the economic foundations 
        of their own nations. Only shame will remain. Perhaps it must be that 
        way to speed along the inner decay of this rotten plutocratic government 
        system. One can speak here only of perverse political and military cooperation. 
        Despite that, it is an enormous danger for us and for Europe, and we must 
        gather all forces to meet it. There is no point in hoping for the aid 
        of other threatened peoples and states. They indeed see the danger, but 
        no power in the world can make them do anything about it. They resemble 
        the rabbit that looks hypnotized at the snake until it is devoured. We 
        are mostly dependent on ourselves to successfully carry out this battle 
        for our existence and the existence of our continent. And we can do it. 
        The economic and military strength of the Reich has grown greatly since 
        the beginning of the war when we faced a far greater danger, which the 
        enemy himself must grant. Europe is largely in our hands. The enemy will 
        leave no method untried in the coming year to rip important positions 
        from the hands of our war leadership. If he is to do this, the state of 
        things requires that he take dangerous risks in the West, which until 
        now he has successfully avoided. He tried to replace them by an air offensive, 
        which everyone knows, and which the enemy even openly admits, is directed 
        more against our war morale than our war potential. I speak of an air 
        offensive, which is a very polite and restrained circumlocution for a 
        completely unsoldierly way of fighting that has no historical parallel 
        in its coarseness and brutality. Through the centuries, it will remain 
        the second great shame of the English and the Americans. During the First 
        World War they tried starvation against women and children. Now they are 
        using phosphorus to beat down a fine and decent nation that demands nothing 
        more than a decent and free life.What worked for the enemy in the First World War will fail
      him in the Second World War. There is no point in even speaking
      about it. Our people survived so brilliantly the test of enemy
      air terror during the year 1943 that the enemy can bury the hopes
      he had for it. The nights of bombing have indeed made us poorer,
      but also harder. The misery of air terror is to some degree the
      mortar that holds us together as a nation in the midst of all
      dangers. Our people have not fallen apart during the nightly
      fire storms as our enemies hoped and wished, but rather has become
      a firm and unshakable community.That is the most valuable lesson of the year 1943. Under the pressure 
        of events, we have to a certain extent become accustomed to the horrors 
        of modern war. The English people will have to get used to them again, 
        too. The air war is pleasant for the enemy only so long as it is one-sided. 
        When it becomes two-sided again, the outbursts of joy on the part of the 
        London press will soon fall silent. British and American pilots however 
        will soon face defensive measures in the entire Reich during their brutal 
        attacks on German cities and their civilian population that will spoil 
        their fun. There is no weapon in this war that does not in time bring 
        forth a counter-weapon. That will be true here, too. The enemy’s air war 
        has only limited effects on our war effort. That is also not his goal. 
        Our production campaign is not affected in any serious way, so the further 
        successful continuation of the war is for us absolutely assured. We assume 
        that the English and the Americans will try an invasion in the West during 
        the coming spring. They will have to because Stalin, their supreme lord 
        and ruler, wants them to. Then it will become clear who is right, the 
        enemy side or us. In any event, the English and American public can see 
        what their soldiers have to expect from the battles in Italy, and should 
        not forget that the German Wehrmacht defending Rome is still fighting 
        far at the edge of our zone of interest, while our life is at stake 
        in the West. It is very probable that the war will thereby enter its decisive 
        stage. Our prospects for victory are more than favorable. It is in general a 
        thankless task to play the prophet in such a critical time. However, the 
        German leadership has never faced coming events with such sovereign calm 
        as it does now. Of course the enemy side presents its chances as absolutely 
        certain. The example of Italy proves, however, that it suffers from the 
        fateful disease of overestimating its own strength and underestimating 
        that of its opponent. It is easy to expect, therefore, that English and 
        American soldiers will have an unpleasant surprise in the coming year. 
        They will have to thank their governments, which will lead them blindly 
        into bloody misfortune. A decisive element in victory is a consciousness 
        of the justice of one’s cause. We certainly have enough of that. We know 
        very well why we are defending Europe; neither the English nor even less 
        the Americans know what they are fighting for. But they will have to shed 
        the most blood. No one will die gladly for a government based on arrogance 
        and class pride, in which the workers are the slaves of the money moguls, 
        and whose leaders coin lovely social phrases but carefully avoid social 
        actions. But a soldier will defend as his own life a state that is his 
        own, that is a social state in the truest sense of the word, that provides 
        the average man with the chance to rise, that defends in its policies 
        and war leadership only the interests of the whole people and not a small 
        layer of plutocrats, a nation whose best sons lead it to prosperity and 
        happiness. If the English and the Americans come, they will meet such 
        a state, and such soldiers of the National Socialist Germany they hate 
        so much, as to teach them that the effects of their cowardly and stupid 
        propaganda are different now than they were in 1918.I need not waste words about what this war means to us. Our enemies have 
        left no doubt of that. We are defending our existence. It is good for 
        us to know that. It does not make us weak, but hard. A defeat would destroy 
        us all. The English and Americans would take our commerce, our ships, 
        mines, factories and machines, the Bolshevists our men and children. What 
        remained would no longer be a nation, only a heap of millions of starving 
        and ragged slaves, defenseless and stupidly vegetating and, as the enemy 
        wishes, posing no danger for its torturers and suppressors. Over against 
        that is the victory that we can and will achieve. It will open the door 
        for us to the final freedom and independence of our people. Then we will 
        be on the road to peace and free labor, the reconstruction of our homeland 
        and a deep social happiness that rests in the community of us all. Truly 
        that is a goal that is worth all the labor, sorrow and exertion of this 
        war. Who would not want to accept them, no matter how difficult it might 
        seem! They are the prerequisites for our coming freedom from all the chains, 
        for the salvation of all of civilized humanity. If I am asked what the 
        primary virtue that will lead us to victory is, I can give but one answer: 
        loyalty to ourselves, loyalty to our vision of the world and to our political 
        affirmation of faith. In November 1918, the Reich plunged into the deepest 
        depths of national disgrace because it was failed by its leadership in 
        the final hour and became disloyal to its cause. Just before the end, 
        it lacked the last moment of endurance that in the end makes that possible 
        which seems impossible. That endurance is the most important thing. A 
        nation must fight courageously and intelligently for its existence. But 
        that is not enough. When events intensify and march with giant steps to 
        their culmination, racing toward the crisis, the main thing is that the 
        leadership and people keep their nerve, stubbornly and persistently overcoming 
        dangers and difficulties, letting nothing distract them from the continuation 
        of the course that they once saw as correct, keeping their eye only on 
        the good star of their fate. Suddenly one day the clouds that hid the 
        sun will clear and the sky will again be bright. So it will be in this 
        war, too.What should I say at the end of this almost concluded stormy year to 
        thank the whole nation for its devotion, hard work, loyalty and sacrifice, 
        for its bravery, its contribution of wealth and blood? I do not know where 
        to begin or where to stop. The front and the homeland have outdone themselves. 
        The party as the political leader of the people has accomplished great 
        things. In the countless sorrows and difficulties of everyday life during 
        the war, particularly in the areas affected by the air war after the worst 
        terror attacks, it is an example of how to deal with every difficulty. 
        More than that, true to its traditions as a soldier’s party, it has sent 
        millions to the German front. This is to its great honor, and it far surpasses 
        what is demanded of the German people in general. Here, too, it has proven 
        that it remains a party of fighters. Countless party members defend Germany’s existence at the front; tens 
        of thousands of its leaders and members have sealed their loyalty to the 
        Fatherland with death. The movement consisted of volunteers as it fought 
        for the Reich between 1919 and 1933; once again it is mostly volunteers 
        who stream from its ranks to the front, and continue to stream there from 
        its youth organization, to stop the danger that looms over Germany and 
        all of Europe. This party that grew out of struggle and stands today in 
        the midst of it as well greets its Führer at the end of this and 
        at the beginning of the next year. It greets him in the name of his people, 
        whose honor and pride it is to lead. Countless millions of German soldiers 
        bearing weapons on every front join in this greeting, as do countless 
        millions of German workers and farmers who forge the weapons and give 
        the nation its daily bread. It is also the greeting of millions of German 
        women and mothers who speak in the name of their children, both those 
        who have been born and those who will be born, for whom they wish a good 
        future. They put their fate confidently in the hand of the Führer 
        and in his soldiers. In passionate thankfulness the homeland remembers 
        the fighting front and promises that no trick, no terror, and no power 
        of the enemy will weary it or make it bend. Gathered around the Führer, 
        we German people stand at the end of this hard year of war and step courageously 
        into an as yet unknown future. We know that it will be our future. Fate 
        will give us nothing; we must fight for it. We want to do that. With stubborn 
        doggedness we await the enemy, whether he sneaks over our cities at night, 
        whether he rams against our front in the East with superior numbers of 
        men and material, whether he gets his head bloodied in the South or whether 
        he finally risks an attack on the Atlantic Wall. Wherever he attacks us, 
        he faces a front of German men, and in the homeland where these are lacking, 
        German women, boys, and girls. The year 1944 will find us ready. Trained 
        in the great lessons of history, educated in the spirit of National Socialism, 
        with the example of our fathers before our eyes, we accept the struggle 
        for our existence. In the end it will open the way for us to the future. 
        With such a Führer as we have and such a people as we are and always 
        want to be, who can doubt our victory! What we won in the first half of 
        this war by bravery we must defend with stubbornness in its second half. 
        That we will do with all the strength of our heart. There is none among 
        us who does not know why. 