by Joseph GoebbelsWar, too, has its characteristic face. One sees it many places in the
         homeland, and everywhere at the front. Certain unmistakable signs clearly
         point to war. Visitors from abroad, however, say that during a quick
        visit  it is hardly possible to see that the Reich is at war. That is
        in fact  how it is. Someone who today walks down the streets of a big
        city, and  even more a mid-sized or small one, scarcely gets the impression
        that  we Germans have been fighting for our lives for three and a half
        years.  People look in good shape and decently nourished. At first glance
        their  clothing and shoes look neat, the streets are clean and in order
         except in the cities that have been bombed, and movies, concert halls,
         and theaters are overflowing. Even though the department stores and
        luxury  shops have hardly anything for sale that goes beyond basic needs,
        they  try by hard work and careful displays to maintain the appearance
        of a  normal offering of merchandise. In short, the face of the war in
        the homeland  is not such that one can immediately see what is at stake.In part, we are keeping up appearances for sake of appearance, which
         is probably acceptable. However, in part it is genuine, which is less
         admirable. At home we are living life in a way that in some respects
        is  anything but appropriate for war time. We do not want to split hairs
        here,  promoting a wartime lifestyle that depends entirely on outward
        appearances.  We do not want to insist on privations that have no significance,
        but  will have deep impact on our whole lifestyle, as well as on our
        thoughts  and feelings. It would, for example, be a mistake to close
        the movies,  concert halls, and theaters to prove that we are at war
        and must be serious  about everything. We do not need to prove how serious
        war is. That will  come on its own. But we do not always need to give
        way to it. When we  maintain the cultural life of millions of our people
        at home and in part  at the front as well in a way appropriate to war,
        providing some relief,  some edification, some relaxation in hard times,
        and in ways that have  no measurable impact on the huge exertions we
        put into the war effort,  it would be foolish and unforgivable to permit
        stubborn dogma or outward  appearances to destroy the spiritual peace
        of millions. That is of greater  value than what we would gain by abolishing
        these pleasures.One should not think that we are arguing for a lifestyle during war
        that  follows doctrinaire principles. We understand the thinking and
        feelings  of our people too well not to know what they want and what
        they think  appropriate or inappropriate during war. Things that demand
        few personnel  and expense, but which provide relief for millions of
        people, not only  should, but must, be maintained. For example, radio,
        theater, and film  provide relaxation and spiritual recuperation for
        the whole German people,  but require that only a few thousand people
        be released from tasks important  to the war effort — and given
        their abilities and training, they  probably would not perform all that
        well there anyway. For the sake of  the whole people, one should not
        touch these institutions, which are also  important to the war effort.
        Even in conditions of total war, they are  necessary. The best criterion
        is to ask what resources are required on  the one hand, and for how many
        people the war is made more bearable on  the other hand. No one should
        suspect us of some sort of iconoclasm. The  German cultural landscape
        is blooming as never before in the visual arts,  theater, opera, concerts,
        film, the press, radio, and literature. That  is persuasive proof of
        the correctness of our approach on the one hand, and of the restrictions
        of our civilian life on the other.But here the problem becomes more difficult. We still have a variety 
        of institutions that serve either no one or very few, but demand resources 
        in personnel and material that bear no proportion to the results. We all 
        know, for example that there are shops everywhere in which there is hardly 
        anything to buy. When one walks into them, one feels as if he had landed 
        on a lonely island in the middle of stormy seas. After a long search, 
        one finds a native somewhere behind a counter who gapes without understanding 
        at the naive question whether this or that can be purchased, looking just 
        like a member of a foreign tribe that only understands Swahili. From a 
        superficial perspective, it may seen useful and advisable to maintain 
        appearances by keeping such shops open. But in view of the hard necessities 
        of war, they serve no purpose. One thus closes them and transfers their 
        employees to more useful duties.Everyone knows that there are bars and locales where only the regular 
        customers can get anything to eat or drink. They can usually be counted 
        on the fingers of a few hands. But for every ten guests, there is one 
        employee. Others get annoyed. They stand outside, find no place to sit 
        down, and are angry. The optics of war require an end to such things. 
        We have nothing against a refined lifestyle, but everything has its time. 
        Today, in the middle of war, it is out of place. It does not fit in. As 
        gladly as we will welcome it after the war as over, it is offensive to 
        us today. Away with it!We know that will annoy a few thousand people. But we remind them that 
        today it is a matter not only of facts, but also of the psychological 
        face of war. A fighting community must obey certain rules, or else the 
        whole spirit suffers. Just as at an officer at the front must be a model 
        to his men both of bravery and camaraderie, so the more prosperous and 
        socially elevated in the homeland must be an example of diligence and 
        solidarity to those less fortunate. This has nothing to do with servility. 
        We have no desire to talk of making everyone the same. However, the laws 
        of war demand a certain lifestyle that everyone must accept if the community 
        is not to run the risk of being seriously harmed by a lack of national 
        solidarity. We have heard that in the few big cities that still have bars, not much 
        is happening. There is hardly anything to drink. An old piano player pounds 
        on a tired piano. The guests sit in silence, pretending there is peace. 
        Why do we allow such nonsense? Put the pianist at the service of the troops, 
        and the staff can certainly find useful employment in some important war 
        enterprise, or perhaps in cafeteria or factory dining hall. Troops heading 
        home on leave will certainly be happy if they can find a place to sleep 
        in the empty establishment while waiting for their next connection rather 
        than having to wait in an uncomfortable train station. People ask why the government does not order that to happen. The government 
        cannot pass a law to deal with every problem or minor annoyance that affects 
        the war effort. It must depend upon the people to arrange their lifestyle 
        in a way that takes appropriate notice of the war. It should be a matter 
        more of education than of the law. And one would hardly know where to 
        begin and end. Individually, these are insignificant matters, but together 
        they affect what we call the face of the war. One makes a big mistake 
        if he thinks one could impress foreign countries by maintaining such things. 
        Nothing impresses both friend and foe today as much as total and radical 
        war leadership, both at the front and at home. If we win, the whole world 
        will be our friend; if we lose, we will be able to count our friends with 
        a few fingers.During the war, we want a people whose approach to life includes both 
        serious and more relaxed moments, even at times cheerful ones. It should 
        take serious things seriously, and lighter things lightheartedly. It should 
        not close its eyes to the victims of the war, but neither should it be 
        depressed. It must always remain aware that we are fighting this war for 
        a great and noble cause. Everything that helps in this regard is good 
        and important to the war effort. The heavier the burdens of the war become, 
        the more we must accept them with a spirit of solidarity. Now is the time 
        to make National Socialist teaching and training effective within and 
        around us. We must behave differently than we did during the World War. 
        During that long war, people became more and more alienated and distant 
        from each other. Today, we must grow closer and closer. That is the only 
        way we will master the growing difficulties. And they must be mastered, 
        or we will not reach our goal.If we compare ourselves to the other warring peoples, no one will be 
        able to say that we are demanding too much of the German people. There 
        are neutral states today in which people live worse than we do. According 
        to eyewitness reports, life in the hinterlands of the Soviet Union is 
        so terrible that we in comparison are almost in paradise. We are in no 
        position to complain. It could be a lot worse, and we have to hold out, 
        since our only choice is to fight or to lose our freedom and our lives. 
        We have every reason to thank fate that it gives us so many opportunities 
        to lessen the burdens of war for each other. But that is no reason for 
        too much of a good thing, for allowing a certain group to live in a way 
        that is hardly different than they lived in peace. Unfortunately, a few 
        of us forget all too easily that the elimination of the direct threat 
        to our borders did not eliminate the larger threat, and that there is 
        a lot of work to do before we are through. Thus we have to take every 
        opportunity to repeat that. Our fundamental principles of war remain the 
        same. We cannot change them every week merely so that we have something 
        new to say. Rather, we see our duty as constantly repeating them until 
        they become the spiritual property of our whole people.The daily concerns of the war all too easily distract us from the fundamentals. 
        The often confusing polemics about current events sometimes conceal the 
        spiritual lines of this world struggle and push the principles into the 
        background. That makes it even more necessary to turn attention from tiring 
        daily matters back to principles, which are the foundation of our war 
        policy. Even today, we must attempt to see the war as later historians 
        will see it. Only then can we see the events of the moment with the sovereign 
        assurance and calm that they deserve. Our attitude toward the war will 
        this be immovable and unshakable. We will see the policies and war leadership 
        of today as a piece of coming history, in which we ourselves are participating 
        directly or indirectly. We will feel an active, personal role. That requires an inner and outward approach to the war that is, without
        doubt, lofty. It depends not on the events of the moment, but rather
        on a view of the great movements of our day, which proceed whether we
        like it or not. As in every other aspect of human life, recognizing the
        connections is the most important prerequisite to properly evaluating
        the facts as well as the imponderables. It is sometimes just as important
        to know how things are perceived by the people as to know how they actually
        are. The psychology of war leadership plays a critical role in today’s
        war of peoples. It is more important today than in any war of the past.
        As a result, the optical appearance of our civilian life cannot stand
        in crass contrast to the real war, but rather they must be in harmony.
        Only then can we feel like a modern warrior people. Our opponents focus
        on the outward face of the war in some respects, neglecting the facts.
        We, on the other hand, put the more important facts in the foreground,
        but sometimes neglect the purely optical aspects. That is a mistake which
        can and must be corrected. A few thousand people will complain, but the
        whole people will thank us. It will see that we are not only speaking
        of a people’s war, but actually waging it.Neutral and enemy nations will thereby see that we are determined to
         win the war, whatever it costs. The war is not being fought to maintain
         peace, but rather to gain it. It has to be total. The peace time things
         we give up today serve the war effort. The most total war is the shortest
         war. It forms our image, and we form its image. Image and reality must
         agree.Thus we want to wage war with all our strength. It should be the focus 
        of our efforts and of our daily labors, and it should fill our dreams 
        at night. It places hard duty on us, but we obey for the sake of the coming 
        happy peace. 
  
