by Joseph GoebbelsOne must understand the Jewish question in order to understand the present 
        state of the war. How else could one explain the following facts: The 
        Axis powers are fighting for their lives in a world-wide struggle, facing 
        eastern Bolshevism on the one side, the most blatant and most radical 
        expression of international socialism, and western plutocracy on the other 
        side, the most blatant and most radical expression of international capitalism. 
        Bolshevism is attempting to put on a veneer of Western civilization, while 
        plutocracy is putting on the Jacobin hat as needed and speaks in a revolutionary 
        mish-mash that attempts to conceal the remaining distance between it and 
        Bolshevism. The Kremlin tells Downing Street and the White House that 
        the plutocracy reigning there is not all that bad. In London and Washington, 
        fine gentlemen in frock coats and cardinals in their robes eagerly attempt 
        to whitewash Bolshevism and Stalin, making them appear to be innocent 
        angels. There is no greater piety than that of the Soviet rulers, and 
        no better socialism than that represented by Roosevelt, Churchill, and 
        Eden. Explain this phenomenon of nature to me, Count Örindor!One will search in vain for the answer to this riddle if he fails to 
        consider the Jewish problem. However, the answer is clear if one sees 
        the key to world history in the racial question. There is only a superficial 
        difference between the two enemy camps — only the agitating persons 
        in the foreground. If one shines a light on the background, however, one 
        quickly discovers the cause of the whole spiritual and intellectual confusion, 
        the ferment of decomposition of states and peoples: international Jewry.Plutocracy and Bolshevism spring from the same roots of a period of liberal-democratic 
        decline. They may differ in nuance, but in essentials they are the same. 
        What they want may differ, but want they do not want is the same. They 
        do not want order among the peoples of the world. They both depend on 
        disorder, anarchy, and chaos. They seek them because they can only draw 
        their infernal power for evil and destruction from those sources. Jewry 
        has two ways to gain and maintain power over unified peoples: international 
        capitalism and international Bolshevism. The one is the more radical brother 
        of the other. Their lust for power is limitless. Whenever they cannot 
        reach their goal by the usual means, they seek to introduce conditions 
        of hopelessness and desperation in which they can sow their seed. In the 
        process, they constantly and eagerly do all they can to hinder and eliminate 
        the natural defenses of states and peoples, strengths that spring from 
        the ethnic strength of a nation. They attempt to discredit that force 
        in advance and prevent it from coming into action by making the danger 
        appear as small and harmless as possible until it is too late.That is the point of the process at which we now find ourselves. Last 
        November, as it began to be apparent that the German military was not 
        in a position to hold the lines it had reached during the operations of 
        summer and early fall, the devilish game began. The ball was tossed back 
        and forth between Moscow on the one side and London and Washington on 
        the other. The Bolshevists dressed for Western Europe and the plutocrats 
        introduced them in this initially confusing clothing to an astonished 
        world. The Kremlin bosses would replace their fine clothing with their 
        former robber garb once they were done. Today they are simply practicing 
        mimicry, the art of appearance and disguise, an art at which the Jews 
        are extraordinarily good, since they have always had to use it to maintain 
        their precarious existence. One can imagine the glee with which the Soviets 
        read articles in neutral and English-American newspapers that presented 
        Bolshevism as the embodiment of bourgeois innocence. One is only uncertain 
        as to whether these articles are written with stupidity or malevolence. 
        But no one will dispute the fact that they represent a national, even 
        a continental, danger for us all.We live at the most critical period in the history of the Occident. Any 
        weakening of the spiritual and military defensive strength of our continent 
        in its struggle with eastern Bolshevism brings with it the danger of a 
        rapidly nearing decline in its will to resist. The inevitable result would 
        be only a question of time and the right moment. Things are so far along 
        that the Kremlin no longer feels it necessary even to bother to defend 
        itself publicly against the grave accusations that are raised against 
        it in nearly all European states. It believes it can let its weapons speak. 
        It was not even at the Casablanca meeting, which proved its complete indifference 
        to English-American negotiations. Every attempt from London and Washington 
        to get it to even approve the so-called Atlantic Charter failed. As an 
        American journalist recently wrote, Stalin wraps himself in Oriental silence. 
        But his mechanized divisions of robots speak clearly enough. Their aggressive 
        spearheads are aimed not only against the Reich and its allies, but against 
        all of the Occident. That is now clear.Meanwhile, the Jews of Western plutocracy are eagerly at work to minimize 
        the threatening danger, to make it halfway acceptable for the European 
        public. They maintain that in the course of the past two years, since 
        its alliance with the Anglo-Saxon powers, Bolshevism has moderated and 
        taken on a more bourgeois face. Exactly the opposite is naturally the 
        case. Bolshevism has not become more like plutocracy, but rather plutocracy 
        has become more like Bolshevism. Human experience demonstrates that when 
        two differing temperaments join, and that is what is happening here, the 
        most radical always wins the upper hand. That is also true of this political-military 
        concubinage. The Kremlin’s present piety is only for show, while the Anglican 
        Church’s sympathy for Bolshevism is genuine. Behind the Soviet leadership’s 
        pious phrases, we detect the grotesque face of Bolshevist atheism. It 
        has not been liquidated, but rather it is only waiting to begin again its 
        own work of liquidation, completing its work of extermination in the European 
        states that it began with hundreds of thousands of priests in the Soviet 
        Union. Only then, perhaps, will the Christian churches learn what combative 
        enmity to religion really means.It would also be totally naive to believe the English and Americans when 
        they say that after their arms have conquered Europe they will protect 
        our part of the world from Bolshevization. If the German military cannot 
        do it, no other military power in the world could do it, even if it wanted 
        to. Today, leading English and American newspapers are saying that one 
        must give the Soviet Union a free hand in Europe, and that it would perhaps 
        be best to put our continent under the rule of the Kremlin. That can be 
        said in one sentence, but it contains the tragic decline of all of civilized 
        humanity. One shudders at the thought that it could become reality, even 
        that it could be spoken of at all, without all of Occidental humanity 
        rising as one to defend itself. Instead, they stare hypnotized, like the 
        rabbit before the snake before he is devoured. The paralysis of Europe’s 
        will has reached its epitome. Moscow, meanwhile, is telling the workers in European states that they 
        always had to work anyway, and they will not have to do more than work 
        in a Soviet system. It requires a holy innocence to even hear this claim. 
        Jewish terrorism in the Soviet Union is aimed not only at intellectuals, 
        but even more on the more numerous working and farming classes. Millions 
        of working people there have perished miserably in forced labor camps. 
        If the Soviet Union prepares such a fate for its own people, what will 
        it do with foreign peoples! They will gather slave battalions for Siberia. 
        The compassion and concern they will experience there is shown by the 
        terrible events in the former Baltic states during their brief Soviet 
        period. There, too, they exterminated not only the political, military, 
        and economic leaders, but also the entire intelligentsia. That is the 
        goal of Jewish Bolshevism. As long as it is not firmly in the saddle, 
        it wants to be sure that there is not the least chance of a new leadership 
        under national leadership. We have here the most demonic attempt to attack 
        the European states and peoples, and there is but one possible response: 
        armed resistance until the world enemy has been defeated. That is all 
        that is important. The danger can only be mastered by the national strength 
        of the peoples.We are pleased that the knowledge of the threat is increasing in international 
        discussions. Throughout Europe, voices are growing more serious. In the 
        areas occupied by German troops, people are becoming aware that the German 
        military is the only protection against the steamroller from the east. 
        In certain circle of our part of the earth, something like a sense of 
        European solidarity is becoming apparent.In this process of re-educating an entire continent, even the Jews may 
        perhaps be a part of that force that always wants evil, but instead causes 
        good. As Clauswitz once said, spiritual events do not always follow the 
        straight path that one expects. Sometimes one thinks that he is totally 
        confused, takes a side path, and suddenly finds himself back on the main 
        road and sees before him the shining goal. Wide-ranging, infernal deviltry 
        works only as long as those who are affected by it fail to see it. If 
        the danger is recognized, the battle is half won. One may not become confused 
        by outward aspects, thereby missing the broader perspective. One must 
        listen to one’s instincts.Our instincts tell us that we are on the right path. The situation is 
        not as complicated as it appears. It is only complicated by those who 
        benefit from confusion. They want to make us unsure, weakening and paralyzing 
        our will to defend ourselves. The better part of Europe today is in a 
        narcotic trance, but if it finds the courage to eliminate the poison, 
        to stop thinking and feeling as its enemy wants it to, and instead follows 
        its sense of self preservation, everything will be won. We have in our 
        part of the world much more strength than we realize. We only need to 
        use a small part of it. Danger sharpens the senses. We have the impression 
        that certain circles on our continent are undergoing a sometimes slow, 
        but also sometimes sudden, awakening. We do not believe that our part 
        of the world wants to give up. It is not at the end, but rather at a new beginning, 
        of its development.Our soldiers in the East will do their part. They will stop the storm 
        from the steppes, and ultimately break it. They fight under unimaginable 
        conditions. But they are fighting a good fight. They are fighting not 
        only for our own security, but also for Europe’s future. Many who today 
        still do not believe that will thank them tomorrow on their knees. Here, 
        too, one truth always shines through. Over its eventful history, Jewry 
        has often stood at the edge of victory, only to be thrown into the darkness 
        of its inferior existence at the last minute.We need only remain alert to prepare the same fate for it this time as 
        well. The material and spiritual crisis of Europe nears a dramatic climax. 
        He who is in the best form will gain the victory. Today more than ever, 
        this phrase is true for us: Readiness is everything! 
  
