 We are in the midst of a decisive period in the war. Using an unprecedented
         mass of weapons and psychological warfare, the enemy is attempting to
         capture positions that we won during the first half of this vast world
         struggle, and which are the foundation of our coming victory. That is
         the reason for the enormous material battles in the East, the renewed
         and pitiless attacks of the English and Americans in Sicily, and the
        brutal  air attacks that the enemy is unleashing on the German homeland.
        The other  side hopes to achieve decisive breakthroughs on the f ront
        and also to shatter the morale of the German people, which they think
        is not able to bear such strains. Such an interpretation of the military
        situation  is no mere theory; the enemy admits it openly and unashamedly.
        They hope  to force us to our knees by massive attacks from all directions
        and win  final victory in a way that will spare protracted, difficult
        and bloody  military operations. The war against our nerves naturally
        has a critical  role. The enemy seems to have realized that agitation
        is having no success  in this area, so it has turned to action.These actions are consistent with the nature of Anglo-American

      plutocrats. During the First World War, they attempted to demoralize

      the German people by a ruthless starvation campaign against defenseless

      women and children. Today they are attempting the same thing

      by air terror against the German homeland. I do not deny that

      enemy air attacks have cost us much property and blood and cause

      difficulties of every manner. The enemy knows that as well as

      we do, since they went through something similar in the summer

      and fall of 1940, though the German Luftwaffe then attacked only

      military and industrial targets, but the enemy’s attacks today

      are directed almost exclusively against the civilian population,

      and thereby our morale. The English hardly bother to deny that

      any longer. In fact, they claim that it will shorten the war

      and spare British blood. This simple and typical English way

      of thinking proves the brutal cynicism of the gentlemen on the

      other side of the Channel.It is up to us to answer in the same way. Since at the moment

      we are not able to do that by massive counter attacks, which

      would be the most effective method, we must do it through defensive

      measures. There are two aspects: the military and the civilian.

      Everything militarily possible is being done, and will be intensified.

      Our military defenses have increased significantly, and are growing

      from day to day. The enemy experiences enormous losses during

      its attacks on the Reich which they might be able to withstand

      materially, but not from the personnel standpoint. We expect

      that these losses will not decrease, but rather increase as our defensive

      means improve. That can happen very quickly.What we are experiencing in the air war is a test of nerves.

      The English withstood a test of nerves under much less favorable

      political and military conditions in 1940; we must withstand

      it in 1943. Just as the English government decided then to win

      the air war by radical means, including new weapons, we have

      made a similar decision. Naturally we cannot speak of their nature

      or the presumed date when they will be introduced, but that does

      not change the fact that they are slowly but surely being developed.With regards to civil defense against enemy air terror, methods

      are either preventative or reparative. Sending children, the

      aged and nonworking women out of Berlin because we expect it

      to be the target of enemy air terror is an example of a preventative

      measure. That does not mean that Berlin is certain to be attacked,

      only that we think taking precautions to be wise. We are not

      conducting a complete evacuation. It is a planned partial evacuation

      that is being carried out in an orderly manner and is no cause

      for alarm.The areas receiving and caring for citizens that have been

      evacuated are doing an important and difficult job. But we have

      already managed other difficulties. Those receiving the evacuees

      must have sympathy for them, and vice versa.Our measures of civil defense reflect the rhythm of the enemy’s

      methods of air terror. We announce them regularly to the public,

      and it is in everyone’s interest to pay heed. The government

      is doing everything it can. These methods would be inadequate

      if the public did not do its part. Much can be done by staying

      calm, being courageous, and thinking clearly. We should never

      forget that we are dealing with temporary difficulties here,

      and that the enemy’s attacks against us will pass, just as they

      have on the fronts in the East and South. Everyone needs to stay

      at his post and do his duty. One may be involved in active defense,

      the other in caring for the victims of enemy air terror. The

      more resolutely the people in the Homeland get to work, the more

      certain is success. The main burden of the war sometimes falls

      here, other times there, and each must prove himself when it

      is his turn.That is also true for soldiers. At the front, periods of relative

      quiet alternate with ones of enormous, almost superhuman exertion

      and danger. At such times, the troops must keep their nerve,

      fight bravely, and stubbornly defend their position that loyal

      hands gave them. The enemy does not plan his actions for our

      comfort, but rather to wear us down. He tries in every possible way

      to attack, even to break through; that above all must be stopped.The enemy cooks with water, too. The Soviets attack our front

      with gigantic masses of men and material, hoping to break into

      the Ukraine. They need it, since otherwise they cannot meet their

      need for food. The English and Americans storm against our front

      in Sicily, and accept serious losses in their air attacks, in

      order to break our morale. An American correspondent in London

      recently reported that the British people are weary of war, and

      are calling for victory to put an end to it. We must stop England

      from gaining such a victory, and that is our duty on all fronts,

      both abroad and at home. England has never won a war through

      a genuine military victory. It either sent other peoples to fight

      for it, or it broke the nerve of its enemies even when there

      was no prospect of military success. It is trying it again with

      us. Our task is to frustrate the attempt.During such a phase of war, public morale is a decisive factor.

      During the Seven Years War, there were times when only the strength

      of its king rescued Prussia. Our present crisis is in no way

      as severe as Prussia’s. We would have no right to claim the greatness

      of our age if we did not believe we could master the difficulties.

      Overcoming the dangers will be remembered, not the dangers themselves.

      No one will be forgiven by posterity for failing under particularly

      difficult circumstances. We will forget the difficulties we have

      from all sides the more time passes. We will remember only the

      ways in which we overcame them.We consider it obvious that the soldier at the front keeps his cool
        in  critical situations, and when the order comes leaves his protecting
        trench  to storm the enemy’s position. If he does not, we call him a
        coward. Still,  every attack demands courage, bravery, cold-bloodedness,
        and a strong heart.  We need these same virtues in the homeland with
        regards to morale, and  if it comes to that, physically as well. Our
        enemies are human. They can  be beaten, even if it here or there seems
        difficult. London newspapers  reported recently that our troops in Sicily
        were fighting like the Devil,  and that the attacker had to pay for every
        meter of ground with streams  of blood. German sons stand at their distant
        posts, and they prove through  their unshakable heroism not only their
        physical, but also their moral  courage. If our whole nation is filled
        with their spirit, the enemy can  never defeat us.None of us wants to minimize the severity of the air war against the 
        German homeland. It is a severe trial. But we must pass the trial. The 
        attacks of the enemy on our morale will fail in the face of our firm resolve, 
        just as the storm of his weapons fails against the bravery of our front. 
        We have become citizens of the world, and must behave accordingly. Friend 
        and foe alike look our way each day and ask: Will they pass the test?Our answer cannot be in doubt. The English no longer boast

      that their people can take more than we can. They face a nation

      that is determined to defend its life and freedom by all means,

      and which will end the great battle only when it has the victory.

      In the long run, such determination must be rewarded with victory.

      There will be hard times, but in them above all the nation has

      to prove its mettle. Everyone gives such proof. Our war morale

      is a matter of the individual, but also of the community. It

      is attacked by the enemy today, and we must all defend it.Our nation has learned much from the past. Above all, it has

      learned never to trust a treacherous foe. This lesson is deep

      in our bones. Without wavering we know that a nation of brave

      men and sacrificing women, with an obedient and devoted youth,

      a nation that is risking its very existence in fighting for freedom,

      will gain it. 