 Mature political judgment requires not only understanding, but also imagination. 
        That is what generally is missing in those who shout their opinions the 
        loudest. They take pleasure in balancing the war’s accounts, which on 
        close examination rarely holds up. That is particularly true at critical 
        points in this struggle for existence. As Clauswitz said, there is a false 
        wisdom that only wants to escape danger. In ordinary times one can easily 
        talk of heroism, since it requires no burdens or dangers. Only real danger 
        reveals a person’s true character. Previously hidden traits, whether good 
        or bad, reveal themselves. One must prove whether he is a hero or a coward 
        by deeds, not words. It is well known that those who make the most noise 
        in good times do the same in bad times. In good times they are filled 
        with illusions, in bad times with hopelessness and pessimism. One can 
        only hold them in contempt; they deserve nothing else, certainly nothing 
        better. Thankfully, such people are a tiny minority by us, and they have 
        no influence.Many otherwise sensible people make the mistake of judging

      the overall state of a war by the difficulties that they personally

      face. That is all they see. They overlook the fact that most

      of the problems are the result of the war, and affect the enemy

      just as much. There are of course difficulties that affect only

      us, but they are mostly balanced by problems that only affect

      the enemy. On the whole things balance each other out, and the

      crucial factor is which side devotes the most energy and confidence

      toward winning superiority over the other side. Faith plays a

      role in every great matter, for the individual as well as for

      the entire nation.Since the beginning of the war our enemy has been hard at work attempting 
        to persuade us of things that do not correspond to the facts, but do exploit 
        our national characteristics. We Germans have had much misfortune over 
        our history, and are suspicious of a series of successes. When  an 
        occasional misfortune occurs, we incline toward a type of self accusation 
        that only harms our activity and our self confidence. The National Socialist 
        leadership is free of this German weakness. Our rise from a tiny party 
        to power is clear proof that such weakness is not to be found in us. The 
        German government’s determination is clear in this great struggle for 
        existence. The government sees things realistically and sensibly, as they 
        are, but depends less on understanding than on imagination. Past history 
        shows that it is always able to deal with the situation, and will do so 
        in the future as well. No difficulty is unmasterable if a great people 
        wishes to master it.Our evaluation of the war is affected by the great victories

      of the past. They have given an impression of things that is

      often false. Many of us believed that one could survive such

      a great world struggle without having to master any crises. But

      that would be unnatural, not natural. We had to assume at the

      beginning that enormous problems would come, and view it as good

      fortune that we did so well during its first half. That is what

      happened. We broke the enemy’s stranglehold on us at the war’s

      beginning. If one wants to talk about the weakness of our position,

      it was then. We were compressed into our limited territory, and

      had to begin by gaining breathing room. It was a miracle that

      we succeeded. There was real reason to fear when our enemies

      attacked us. The worst danger was removed by the victories of

      the war’s first three years.The correctness of this description is clear from the behavior of our 
        soldiers. Every German’s heart must beat proudly when he hears English 
        or American reports that our troops in the East and the South are fighting 
        like tigers, and are defending ground over a thousand kilometers from 
        our borders. That is proof of the fact that the German soldier acts politically 
        rather than chatters about politics like some folk back home. He knows 
        what is going on. He knows that he owes it to his comrades, who have sacrificed 
        their lives, to defend the ground they gained with every means possible. 
        That is the guarantee of our eventual triumph. When someone doubtfully 
        asks how we will gain victory in such a way, our answer is that that question 
        is better asked of the enemy, for we have the prerequisites for victory 
        in our hands, not they.It is clear that the enemy camp is watching tensely to see how the German 
        people react to recent developments. The morale of the warring nations 
        is more important in this war than it was in any of its predecessors. 
        The English and American newspapers carry long accounts every day about the 
        internal situation in the Reich, full of speculations and vague hopes. 
        One would have to be very stupid not to see that  enemy air terror 
        is aimed at destroying our morale, and at making the German people an 
        ally of its enemies. It is disgraceful when here and there  citizens becomes 
        a tool of enemy propaganda, even if it is mostly unintentional. They do 
        our cause great damage by encouraging the enemy to continue his blind 
        terror against the German homeland, or even to increase it. We know that 
        this happens only occasionally, but the enemy generalizes and uses it 
        to support further actions against our civilian population. The best way 
        to serve the fatherland is to do one’s duty, believing loyally and unshakably 
        in our great cause, and to allow no one to diminish his confidence in 
        final victory.As far as that great cause goes, it has firm foundations.

      We are not waging a war divorced from reality, nor do we seek

      to lead our nation from one illusion to another. We see the situation

      realistically, complete with its problems, but also with its

      opportunities. The German leadership recognizes not only today’s

      opportunities, but also those of the near and more distant future.

      If we spoke openly of everything that we are preparing, or have

      in reserve, the doubters would likely be silenced. But our national

      interest keeps us from speaking of the future, or even of our

      current resources. There is already more chatter than is useful.

      At times when events become critical and one crisis follows another,

      it is more important than ever that the entire nation looks with

      assurance to the Führer, in whose hand its fate rests.The German government always has a reason for its silence.

      It has never been silent because of uncertainty. More could be

      said than the layman can know. However, not only the German people,

      but also the enemy leadership thirsts for such knowledge. There

      is good reason why we withhold information that might alleviate

      people’s concerns. We have to accept the unfortunate fact that

      the result is sometimes to leave the field free for rumors. But

      given the facts discussed here, such rumor-mongers may see how

      contemptible they are. They are cowardly and stupid at the same

      time. They could not do their job better if they were on the

      enemy’s payroll. Note their lazy chatter, and box their ears

      at the appropriate moment.Their chatter does lead the enemy to believe that our morale

      must be bad if we have to speak about it in this way. That is

      nonsense, but unfortunately those in London, Washington, and Moscow

      believe it. It does not change the war situation, but does give

      the enemy camp hopes and illusions that do us no good, and that

      is something. The enemy’s fantasies about our domestic situation

      are simply outrageous. Notice the difference: When 600,000 American

      miners go on strike for a week, the German press carries a five-line

      story about it. We do not believe the war will be determined

      by such events. But when five criminals here receive the just

      penalty for listening to enemy radio stations, the enemy press

      concludes that a revolution is in progress. We happen to think

      that 600,000 striking miners are a greater threat to the U.S.A.

      than five criminal radio listeners are to us. Where are the illusions,

      and where the realities?Understanding that is crucial. Only one capable of seeing things rightly 
        can form a proper evaluation of the war situation, for he sees things 
        as they are, not how the enemy wishes him to. It is better to hold a thousand 
        kilometers of enemy territory than to hold a half dozen conferences between 
        Churchill and Roosevelt. One is a fact, the other an expression of intentions 
        and wishful thinking. What happens depends on us. One side never determines 
        a war’s outcome, unless it lays down its weapons. That is not only out 
        of the question for us, but we are working day and night to ensure that 
        we do not lack those weapons. And no one, thank God, doubts that the German 
        people are ready to bear those weapons. What can happen to us if our hearts 
        remain courageous? The enemy may bring misery to our cities, but that 
        too will end. Ruined houses can be rebuilt, but not ruined hearts.Was there ever a nation that had so favorable a position after five years 
        of war as we do today? The front is unbroken. The homeland is morally 
        and materially able to withstand the bombing terror. A river of war material 
        flows from our factories. A new weapon against the enemy air attacks is 
        being prepared. Countless able hands are working at it day and night. 
        We have a hard test of patience before us, but the reward will come one 
        day. The German farmer is bringing in a good harvest. There will be enough 
        to guarantee our food supply. At the moment we are not showing the usual 
        level of activity in a variety of military arenas, but we will be doing 
        so in the foreseeable future. We have more than enough challenges, but 
        each can be overcome. We must recall our great and good cause, to which 
        the goddess of history cannot deny final victory. Our task is to do all 
        we can every day to show courage and bravery, a firm attitude, and deep 
        German faithfulness.This is the reality of the war. If we do our duty, that will prove stronger 
        in the end than the illusions of our enemies. War is a matter of strength 
        and will. He who is determined to fight in this spirit is assured of victory. 
        He need only keep going. He must press onward through the thorns and thickets. 
        There may be times when he cannot see the goal, but that is no proof that 
        it is not there.Tomorrow or the next day he may take the step that brings

      him again to shining clarity. 