It attracted some notice when the author of these lines failed to provide 
        his usual weekly lead article on the Friday following 25 July. Some unfriendly 
        souls even believed that the events surrounding the fall of the Duce and 
        the establishment of the Badoglio regime in Rome rather took his breath 
        away. The falsity of that belief needs no proof today. It would naturally 
        have been possible to speak during the week in question just as it is 
        in any other week, and the situation was such that there would have been 
        more to say than usual about the war and international affairs. However, 
        regard for our national interest kept us silent. We did not want to say 
        what we could say, and we could not say what we wanted to say.We do not need to say that the treason of the Badoglio clique,

      which first became evident when Mussolini was deposed, was recognized

      immediately by the German military leadership. It nonetheless

      had to put a good face on things while they developed. Just as

      the traitors worked in secret, so did we. To paraphrase Machiavelli,

      it was a point when it was a sign of great wisdom to look the

      fool. Only thus could the disgraceful plans of the traitors in

      Rome be resisted and ruined.It was a classic example of the necessity of silence during war. We were 
        not willing to say anything that conflicted with our knowledge and beliefs, 
        and that we knew would be contradicted by the facts within a few weeks. 
        But we could not discuss the true situation without revealing the plans 
        and intentions of the German war leadership. And in the middle of one 
        of the most dramatic moments in the war, we did not want to take up some 
        peripheral issue, leaving us open to the charge of dodging the issue. 
        We had no alternative but to remain silent. We were firmly convinced that 
        developments would soon reveal the reason for our silence.This happened more rapidly and dramatically than even we could have expected. 
        The German military leadership assumed after the Duce was imprisoned that 
        the Badoglio regime intended to take Italy out of the war as quickly as 
        possible. All the protestations by the reactionary clique of traitors 
        in Rome about their loyalty and dependability were not able to convince 
        us of the contrary. One does not replace a strong man with a weak one 
        in order to wage war more energetically, as the lying Badoglio clique 
        told us. The actions of the clique in Rome proved that they were committing 
        treason on a large scale. There goal was not only to deceive us, but also 
        to give our soldiers in the south over to the enemy. This treacherous 
        betrayal was to be the payment for a better armistice agreement.The Badoglio regime did not want to leave the war in an honorable way, 
        but rather at the cost of the Axis partner that Italy owes so much to since 
        1940. The king made the most pompous calls to continue the war and hold 
        to Italy’s obligations, while military and political actions demonstrated 
        treason of the most disgraceful and degrading sort. Spare us the necessity 
        of going through the Badoglio regime’s treachery. Even thinking about 
        it sickens us. There has never been a greater example of treachery in 
        all of history. But it was a treachery that backfired, as the proverb 
        has it.The German leadership naturally drew cold and rational conclusions

      at the beginning of developments. The failure of the Badoglio

      regime’s treachery resulted from the German leadership’s countermeasures.

      Had it succeeded, the Reich would have faced the greatest danger

      of the war. Speaking from direct knowledge, we can say that only

      the Führer’s clear vision and wisdom is to thank for overcoming

      the danger. Despite all the hypocritical assurances of a treacherous

      king and his cowardly marshals, who even gave their word of honor

      as soldiers, measure were taken to defend German interests, despite

      scandalous disloyalty.The public knows the outrageous nature of these treacherous

      events. Not only did they conceal their measures from their loyal,

      reliable and generous ally, they continued to do so even in the

      midst of their activities. They made military demands of us that,

      had we fulfilled them, would have led to the worst possible disaster

      for our troops in Italy.One can understand why the Führer was not able to speak

      to the German people in the midst of these breath-taking events,

      despite the widespread wishes of the public. The resulting uncertainty

      had to be accepted as events continued to develop. We presumed

      that the traitorous clique in Rome would continue their activities,

      displaying more stupidity than lack of character. That was our

      plan. We had to play dumb in order to act intelligently.The German people read with horror the account of the deposing and imprisoning 
        of the Duce. We knew this earlier, without being able to reveal it to 
        the public. If one can make any reproach against Fascism, it is that it 
        believed in a king’s loyalty. His throne was rescued in 1922 by the march 
        on Rome, and like most modern kings, he repaid the strong policies of 
        his most loyal servant by deserting him in the hour of danger by running 
        to those who opposed and hated him. Kings generally are not characterized 
        by thankfulness. Wilhelm I, whose loyalty to Bismarck is an exception, 
        earned the title “the Great.” The Duce was good enough in 1922 
        to protect the corrupt court in Rome from execution by the Bolshevists. 
        They deposed him in 1943 because they blindly thought they could get along 
        without him. Recent events have shown how wrong they were. The violent 
        removal of a strong man leads to anarchy. The Italian royal house quickly 
        learned the result of replacing a personality of historic stature with 
        a cowardly, treacherous marshal, one who held breaking his word of honor 
        as a soldier to be the height of political wisdom.One can only pity the Italian people, who were the victims of these revolting 
        developments. Just as a nation benefits from the deeds and accomplishments 
        of strong governments, so too they suffer from the mistakes and failures 
        of weak, amateurish and disloyal governments. It was unavoidable that 
        the Italian people had to suffer at the beginning of the darkest chapter 
        of their history. They have the peace-hungry cowardly elements of Roman 
        society to thank. The thirteen points of the capitulation treaty will 
        have given them a foretaste of what was coming. World history is the world 
        court. Italy’s citizens can learn from the international press what friends 
        and enemies think about the treachery of the king and his clique of generals. 
        Even the English and Americans gag. Their motto at the moment is: “Love 
        treason, hate the traitor.” One does not need to wonder about the 
        judgment of history on the royal house and those around it. That is already 
        clear.London and Washington are amazed at the German reaction to

      the Badoglio regime’s treachery. They expected things to turn

      out differently. The German troops in the south of Italy were

      to be cut off and destroyed. We would not be prepared to deal

      with Churchill’s amphibious landing. Air terror would increase.

      The German people would be so depressed that on 9 November a

      repetition of the tragedy of 1918 would be possible, even likely.

      Nothing like happened, or will happen. The English and the Americans

      have a long way to go to get to Rome, not to mention Berlin.

      The German army is master of events in Italy. And as for German

      morale, it has never been stronger than it is today.The Italian example is not encouraging for we Germans, but rather

      a warning. We see it as a classic example of what not to do.

      No one here wants to follow in the footsteps of the Badoglio

      clique. To the contrary, the consequences that followed the royal

      house’s betrayal of the nation’s great leader and his powerful

      friends is a lesson for every German. It has opened the eyes

      of even the dumbest among us. A flood of letters has reached

      us recently. In some, the writers regret that this or that annoyance

      of the war had put them in a bad mood. In the face of what has

      happened in Italy, they regret it. A university professor writes

      that he is normally a peaceful man, but after reading the capitulation

      demands on the Italian people, he is firmly resolved to punish

      anyone who in his hearing even hints at opposing the war or doubts

      victory. Everyone in Germany thinks the same way. The threat

      has not robbed us of courage, but brought us closer together.None of the English-American hopes have been realized. They

      shot a poisoned arrow at us, but it boomeranged off the wisdom

      of our leadership and the firm morale of our people. A danger

      that first seemed deadly has been averted, and a national misfortune

      has been turned to our good. How can we doubt final victory in

      the face of such a wonderful and improbable turn of events? The

      war brings so many surprises that one cannot predict its course.

      One must hold to the virtues with which its dangers and difficulties

      are mastered.Courage, steadfastness, and confidence in a just fate are

      always with the brave in the end. Their loyalty is unshakable,

      they stand by their friends and allies. The treacherous Badoglio

      clique sinned shamefully against all of these virtues, and they

      have their reward. A band of treacherous cowards misused their

      high offices, forgot their honor and followed a false wisdom

      that wants to escape danger, but falls victim to it. Their names

      are covered with shame and disgrace in the book of history.We bow in admiration before that great personality, the Duce.

      He neither caused, nor could he hinder, the misfortune that came

      upon the Italian people, but now has even greater claim on our

      admiration. The whole German nation admires him. It found spontaneous

      expression when news of his rescue reached us. We are happy that

      our people think this way. It has a natural feeling for thankfulness

      and loyalty, and will stand even more fanatically by a man whose

      lifework is threatened. No one knows what the future of the Italian

      people may be. Perhaps it is undergoing a hard and painful process

      that will bring new life. Italy will have to decide for itself.

      We made a clear choice after 1918: it was for struggle, sacrifice,

      devotion, and hard work. That led us upward. Each nation is responsible

      for itself.We Germans in recent weeks walked a narrow path along the

      abyss. Not everyone saw the abyss, but we all followed the Führer,

      who even in his silence showed us the way. More than ever, we

      sense the blessing of his great personality that watches over

      the life and future of the nation. Giving to him our full confidence

      is not only our national duty, but also our proud right. We want

      to be hard and strong, to fight bravely, to work untiringly,

      to believe and trust unshakably, until the hour of victory comes.All of us will then be able to say that have not gained victory unworthily, 
        but rather that it is the reward for struggle, work, and loyalty. 