 These are the articles of war for the German people, who are now engaged 
        in the most fateful battle of their history. Countless of Germany’s best 
        have sacrificed their lives in their spirit both at the front and at home 
        for the life and freedom of their nation. Millions of brave German soldiers 
        fight for them on every front, and millions of industrious men and woman 
        work untiringly for them at home, in the factories, workshops, offices, 
        laboratories, and in agriculture.These war articles are a reminder to our people of those who

      have fallen. They are a testimony to the willingness of those

      who fight and work to sacrifice, and a harsh rebuke to the lazy

      and undecided.Everything is possible in this war, save that we capitulate and bow to 
        the power of the enemy. Anyone who speaks or even thinks in such a way 
        is a cowardly traitor and must be expelled in disgrace and shame from 
        the fighting and working German community.This war is a defensive war. It was forced upon us by our

      enemies, who wish to destroy the possibility of life and growth

      for our nation. If they succeed, our present generation will

      have lost everything that countless German generations have won

      over millennia of struggle by hard work and sacrifice. Our nation’s

      history will end in shame and disgrace.This war brings countless dangers and risks, as does any war.

      Each must remember that every danger and risk can be overcome

      if a great nation like Germany with a capable and determined

      leadership uses all its strength and every resource to deal with

      it.We will certainly win this war if all Germans think of the community 
        and act as do the best sons of our people. But if all ignored the community, 
        as do the lazy, the cowardly, and the hesitant, we would have long since 
        lost it. The war will be won or lost according to the strength of our 
        community.Each German proves his community sense by conscientiously

      fulfilling his duties to the nation, just as he makes a claim

      on the community. Even in times of peace, each is dependent on

      the help and support of the community, and must therefore also

      be willing to share its burdens and duties. How much more is

      that true during war!Any advice from the enemy is an attack on our war morale.

      The enemy wants to win as much as we do. Everything he says and

      does is intended to lead us astray and deceive us. He who listens

      to the enemy, no matter how sanctimonious the reasons he may

      give, puts his people in the gravest danger. Ignorance may not

      protect him from the penalty he deserves.Silence is an important command from the war leadership. Few

      know the war’s secrets. These are weapons in our nation’s struggle

      for existence, and may not be revealed to the enemy. It would

      be unfair and destructive of the general welfare to spread rumors

      that force the government to speak about matters important or

      even decisive in the war. This can only help the enemy and harm

      our nation.The war leadership is doing the best it can. Often it cannot reveal the 
        reasons for its actions without giving valuable information to the enemy. 
        That means that even those of good will often do not understand its actions. 
        That is why it must have the confidence of the people, confidence it has 
        earned by its courage, cleverness, farsightedness, as well as its past 
        successes. The know-it-alls can criticize only because the government 
        is condemned to silence; if it could speak, they would be refuted instantly.The only thing we cannot afford to lose in this war is our

      freedom, the foundation of our life and our future. Everything

      else can be replaced, even if only through years of hard work.

      But a loss of our freedom would mean the loss of all our other

      material and cultural possessions, both for the nation as a whole

      and for each individual. If the war requires it, we must therefore

      be willing to use all we have to defend that freedom. Without

      it, neither the nation nor the individual can live.An old trick of warfare is to split a people from its government,

      leaving it leaderless and therefore defenseless. This is the

      only trick with which the enemy could defeat us. Anyone who falls

      prey to the enemy’s trick is either stupid or a traitor. He endangers

      the victory for which our soldiers risk their lives, and for

      which our heroes have died. He stabs the fighting front in the

      back. No penalty is too severe for him.Beware of those seemingly intelligent people who seek to win your confidence 
        with clever words, then undermine your confidence with a flood of phrases 
        and rumors. Listen carefully to what they say, and you will soon see that 
        they are cowardly, not intelligent. They may know better, but they cannot 
        do better. Were they the latter, instead of criticizing they would be 
        filling an important position at home or at the front, contributing by 
        their actions to speeding our victory.He who speaks about the war and its prospects should always

      speak as if the enemy were listening. In many cases he actually

      is. Each thoughtless word from our side gives him new hope and

      courage, and therefore prolongs the war. Annoyance or anger about

      this or that inconvenience of the war sometimes has justification,

      but in view of the great battle we stand in the midst of most

      problems are of minor significance,We are helping those who need it as much as possible. If real

      help is impossible during the war, those affected should know

      that it will come after victory. Victory is the prerequisite

      for a national reconstruction that will repair all the damage

      of the war. The more one sacrifices for the war, the more fanatically

      one believes in victory. Therefore we must work and fight. That

      alone gives sacrifices, even the hardest ones, their meaning.Each must, therefore, follow to the letter all the laws and regulations 
        related to the war. Who violates them from neglect or forgetfulness does 
        just as much damage as if he did so intentionally. Each must take the 
        war with the seriousness it deserves.Anything grows dull with time, even the impact of the war.

      We must therefore constantly guard against becoming lackadaisical

      in fulfilling our war duties. Our behavior today will be admired

      in a few decades by our children and grandchildren. They will

      not experience the spiritual pain that this long war has brought

      us. Rather, they will see the war only as the greatest heroic

      event in the history of our nation. Do not forget that in the

      midst of the everyday problems of the war.Everything comes to an end eventually, even war. We must be

      sure that its end is a happy one. We can best ensure that by

      remaining calm and steadfast. The nation with the most of these

      virtues will win.Nothing is more stupid than to believe that the leadership

      has it better than the people. The individual may have a heavy

      material burden to carry. But the heaviest burden is that of

      responsibility, with its never-ending cares. One should not be

      unfair and should not make unreasonable judgments about matters

      he does not understand.Nothing is more contemptible than to think that one part of

      the nation wages the war and another only watches. This is no

      war of governments or armies, it is a war of peoples. He who

      stands aside only proves that he does not understand the situation.

      He is a war parasite who lives from the pain and contributions

      of others. Were they to think as he, we would lose the war. In

      the interests of decent citizens, the lazy must be reminded of

      their war duties. The war effort demands that, as does public

      morale.Just as in war there are medals and decorations for those who fulfill 
        their duties with distinction, so, too, there must be warnings and if 
        necessary harsh penalties for those who neglect their war duties. A war 
        duty left undone is far worse than a neglected duty in time of peace. 
        Each German today lives under the laws of war. They lay out harsh penalties, 
        even for behaviors that are not all that serious in peace. They are shameful 
        crimes during war, since they endanger victory. They deserve the harshest 
        penalties.The soldier dies at the front while fulfilling his duty. He has the right 
        to demand that those at home who sabotage or harm the war effort receive 
        the death penalty. The front has the right to be supported by high morale 
        at home. Anyone whose actions at home rob the front of this assurance 
        deserves a harsh penalty. The soldier at the front demands it.Whether at home or at the front, discipline is the most important virtue. 
        We can master the war’s enormous problems only through iron resolve. A 
        weakness in discipline weakens morale and violates all the laws of war. 
        Any loosening of our people’s unity in war is a crime against the community. 
        Our people’s greatest chance of victory is in firm resolve and hard determination.No one has the right to complain about limitations on his

      personal freedom caused by the war. What significance do these

      have in view of the fact that countless men, even woman and children,

      have died!The war demands our full devotion for itself and its duties. All that 
        still remains from can only be viewed as a gift subject to recall. We 
        must always realize that sooner or later we may have to give it up. We 
        are fighting this war not to maintain, but to restore peace. In war more 
        than ever, one must use what one is defending.Nothing is too valuable to be sacrificed for freedom. All

      we possess we won as a free people. Without our freedom, it would

      have no purpose, meaning or endurance. It is better for a nation

      to be impoverished but free rather than to seem prosperous, but

      end a war as slaves. A free people can rebuild everything it

      lost in defending its freedom. An enslaved people will lose that

      which survived the war, and also the ability to gain it back

      again.The duty of the individual during war extends to sacrificing

      his life for the life of his nation. In view of such great and

      final sacrifice, surely one must demand that each be ready to

      give up his goods and property if that is necessary for victory

      and the security of his nation! Only such willingness to sacrifice

      transforms a collection of individuals into a people, and in

      a higher sense, a nation.The goal of our government and military leadership is a German

      nation that can live freely in all important areas. Our generation

      must secure this through battle and hard work. It cannot be postponed

      until later. Either we do it, or it will never be done.Our generation has not only particular burdens, but also particular

      honor. If we win, and we can and must win, we will be the most

      famous generation in the history of Germany. If we lose, our

      names will be cursed through the centuries by the generations

      that must bear the frightful cost of our failure.There are people who have little interest in such matters. They are materialists 
        who think only of comfort and pleasure, and who have no sense of their 
        historic responsibilities. One can only hold them in contempt. They are 
        ready to give up our nation’s future for the pleasures of the moment. 
        Wherever they speak, they must be dealt with firmly. They do not understand 
        reason, only self-interest. They act under the principle: After us the 
        deluge! Our reply to these unprincipled people is this: Even if we have 
        to give up our dreams for many years, at least our children and grandchildren 
        will have things better!Remember in all that you do and do not do, in all that you

      say and do not say, that you are a German! Believe loyally and

      unshakably in the Führer and in victory. Remember always

      that you are a child of the bravest and most industrious people

      on earth. We must suffer much to reach our goal, but the goal

      will be reached despite everything if only we hold true to all

      our virtues and are ready, if necessary to sacrifice everything

      in this war to guarantee the nation’s freedom and its future. 