
1943 was a year of testing for us. The Reich had the task of defending 
        the economic and military ground that our army had won in past great offensives, 
        and which is the foundation of the coming final victory. It was to be 
        expected that the enemy would do all it could to tear it from us. They 
        did not succeed. They did it is true deal us significant blows, but were 
        not able to bring about a fundamental change in the war situation. One 
        needs only to remember the views and plans with which they began the past 
        year to realize that they were able to gain only a small portion of their 
        goals, a portion in no way sufficient to change the war in their favor.That was openly admitted in London and Washington at the end of the year. 
        The leading military critics of the Anglo-American newspapers competed 
        in criticizing their war leadership, whose results stood diametrically 
        opposed to their predictions and promises. That is how things in fact 
        stand. We can be satisfied with the course of the war in 1943. It has 
        not brought us what we hoped, but that is even more true for the enemy.The enemy camp seriously underestimated the moral and military strength 
        of the Reich in the most fateful and gravest ways. They are still doing 
        that in part today. We Germans in general hold only our own government 
        responsible if it makes false promises, but it is worth remembering that 
        the British prime minister called the Anglo-American campaign in Italy 
        the beginning of an attack on the soft underbelly of Europe and promised 
        the public that reaching the Brenner Pass was only a matter of weeks. 
        By the time the leaves fell in the fall, amphibian operations would finally 
        have destroyed the Wehrmacht’s strength in all the European theaters of 
        action. One needs only a cursory look at the map to realize that these 
        were hasty prophecies not worth the paper they were printed on.The enemy side was just as deceived about the political developments 
        of 1943. How often was the moral collapse of the Reich predicted, yet 
        here we are! One does not need rose-colored glasses to conclude that the 
        German people have never been so determined to fight and win as they are 
        in this fifth year of war. In the face of our determination, the enemy 
        has had to back off from his demands for unconditional surrender. He has 
        probably realized that it only makes him look ridiculous. What would the 
        English and American soldiers say about it? On the Southern Front they 
        must struggle through mine fields and conquer mountains at the cost of 
        rivers of blood, only to lose them the next day. Their great offensives 
        gain a few centimeters. One will not defeat the German army that way.There is a familiar Berlin joke that exactly describes the current situation: 
        “He who boasts gets more out of life.” The English and Americans 
        have succeed in using clever and boastful bluff propaganda to persuade 
        a certain part of the world that victory is a foregone conclusion that 
        really does not need to be discussed any longer. The more the military 
        facts speak against them, the more crudely and shamelessly London and 
        Washington repeat their claims. On the one hand the enemy side is attempting 
        to build up its own courage, and on the other to persuade the neutral 
        public of things that are simply not true. They boast destructive plans 
        against the Reich and the German people as if they were already in Berlin, 
        while in fact they are fighting in vain a long way from Rome. We would 
        never make propaganda so far from the truth. But the English and Americans 
        do it without the least shame. They have the hippopotamus skins of hardened 
        sinners, and the idea of a political conscience is entirely foreign to 
        them. There is no point in arguing with them.One of the favorite elements to their agitation is to speak of so-called 
        war criminals. They use the familiar method of shouting “Stop, thief!” 
        Churchill and Roosevelt know well enough that they are the real cause 
        of this terrible war. They prepared it and unleashed it at the proper 
        moment. The blood guilt rests with them. But that does not stop them from 
        accusing those who were attacked of being the guilty party, of promising 
        us the punishment that they themselves deserve. It is of course all theoretical: 
        in fact, they face the unconquerable wall of our continent. They are trying 
        to figure out how to open the gate without having to fight for it. They 
        are following tested methods. They believe that what worked in 1918 has 
        to work again this time, and therefore create the illusion that they have 
        a material superiority and invincibility that we cannot oppose. We hardly 
        want to deny that the enemy has caused us great difficulties, or that 
        he will continue to do so in the future. That is how war is. But the enemy 
        is not in the position to rip the tools of victory out of our hands. That 
        is what is critical.The Nurembergers have long said that one should not hang someone before 
        catching them. We know that Churchill and Roosevelt would like to put 
        the noose around the German leadership’s necks, not because they are responsible 
        for the war, but rather because they are doing everything in their power to 
        resist the enemy’s war of annihilation against the German people. What 
        is even worse from the standpoint of Washington and London, they are succeeding. 
        Were we of Bettman-Hollweg’s And they do not only want to hang the German leadership, but rather the entire 
        German people. They would surely hang us all if they had the power. They 
        do not know us very well if they think that will make us fear. We have 
        been condemned to death so often in the past for our political crimes 
        that we could not have survived had we died every time. We are in the 
        position of the police who have to deal with a band of gangsters. The 
        gangsters have professional reasons to hate the police. They understandably 
        wish them dead. The police, after all, guard the public and the state. 
        But do the police fear the gangsters? The opposite. They fight them, and 
        eventually bring them to justice.The enemy has committed every conceivable crime against humanity, culture, 
        and civilization. They are, in fact, so spiritually corrupt as to boast 
        about it in public. They plunder honest and decent nations to fill the 
        pockets of their own money barons. They let millions go hungry and hundreds 
        of thousands starve to reduce them to political inactivity. They murder 
        huge numbers of women and children, hoping through their unbelievable 
        barbarism to weaken the will and destroy the confidence of their husbands 
        and fathers. They bomb and burn more than two millennia of Europe’s cultural 
        treasures. What other crimes could they commit to earn the disgust, the 
        hatred, and the deep contempt of the entire world? Who has the right to 
        speak of war crimes and historical justice, the enemy or we?We know that this is painful for Churchill, Roosevelt, and their comrades. 
        Their paid agitators will respond with howls of outrage. But that does 
        not alter the fact that we are telling the truth, which the world’s public 
        realizes. The enemy’s bluff propaganda is childish! They are trying to 
        suggest they have strengths that they do not have. They surround themselves 
        with hollow social and humanitarian phrases, but only lies and deception 
        are behind them. They are trying to keep their own and foreign nations 
        in the dark, to keep them defenseless, and then to plunder them. They 
        would long since have succeeded had not National Socialist Germany taken 
        up the struggle against them. That is why they hate us with burning rage. 
        It resembles the hatred and rage criminals have for the police, who reveal 
        their dark handiwork even if they are dressed in a tuxedo and attempt 
        to play the role of the gentleman.The police are not deceived, and neither are we. We have seen through 
        the enemy, and they know it. Our ears are deaf to their lies. In its struggle 
        against the plutocratic-Bolshevist conspiracy, young National Socialist 
        Germany feels itself the leader of the entire civilized world. It would 
        cease to exist were we to give up before the enemy’s assault. We are God’s 
        instrument today, fulfilling a great historical mission. It cannot be 
        postponed. We must do it, or humanity will collapse. We all know this. 
        This is a struggle between light and dark, between truth and falsehood, 
        between true humanity and inhuman barbarism. Germany carries the banner. 
        All the oppressed and tortured peoples look to us in hope, because they 
        expect from us alone a new order and the salvation of the world.Our language is not able to express the extent of our responsibility. 
        This is more than a war, it is a battle for the world. A sinister conspiracy 
        is attacking the foundations of human society. Whether humanity will be 
        saved or whether it will collapse depends wholly on us. They enemy is 
        using every possible base and cynical method to divert us from our mission, 
        to tire us out, to weary our souls, to shake our hearts. But the last 
        year proves once again that they will never succeed. The blessing of fate 
        is with us.This is the conviction with which we close the book of the old year and 
        open that of the new. There are riddles and more riddles before us. We 
        know that we can and must solve them all. It will be a dangerous year 
        in which the fate of civilized humanity once again will hang in the balance. 
        And as was the case so often in the past, salvation will come when one 
        least expects it. We need only believe firmly in it, and fight for it. 
        Salvation lies in loyalty to ourselves and to our task. As the year changes, 
        millions of German soldiers raise their weapons, millions of German farmers 
        their scythes, millions of German workers their hammer. Behind them millions 
        of German women raise their children, both in supplication and in demand. 
        The current generation of our people is defending the Reich, as countless 
        generations before them also have done. It was given to us from the hands 
        of our weak and discouraged fathers. We want to pass it on, strong and 
        powerful, to our children.That is why we are fighting and winning this war. Each new year is new 
        proof of that. 