The English press has called the series of terror attacks on the Reich 
        capital, which has been continuing for three months with only occasional 
        pauses, the “Battle of Berlin.” They have left no doubt that 
        the intention of the British war leadership is to destroy the Reich capital 
        with these brutal and horrible attacks, or as they themselves say, to 
        depopulate it, to crush the war morale of its population, and thus win 
        on the German home front the decisive victory that our fighting soldiers 
        have denied the Anglo-Americans thus far in this war on the front, and 
        that our soldiers will continue to deny them in the future. There is no 
        one in Berlin who would not know that, also no one who would not be firmly 
        determined to resist these terrorist intentions of the enemy with the 
        whole force of his soul and his unbroken heart, thus bringing the enemy’s 
        plan to naught by a great common effort of heroism. When we discuss this 
        subject today outside the circles of the Berlin population, it is because 
        it involves much more than the direct interests of the population of the 
        Berlin. Since the middle of November of the past year, Berlin has been 
        fighting a defensive battle for the entire German people. The Reich capital 
        is representing the cause of the Reich at a decisive point and at a decisive 
        moment. It is not yet clear today what that means for the city and its future.
         It is generally known that metropolises usually have an unenviable place
         in people’s thinking. They are the seats of government and thus of 
          bureaucracy. They are the source of rules, regulations, and tax laws,
        things that as a rule cause more grief than joy for citizens. The situation
        of the Reich capital is made more difficult by the fact that it is still
        young, achieving its historical task late in its development. And the
        temperament of its population can only be understood and appreciated
        by someone who has learned them by being there for many years, one who
        alongside its undeniable weaknesses has also learned its higher values
        and virtues. Berlin is more a melting pot than a city that grew in an
        organized manner. Beside the original Berliners, whom the Berliners themselves
        say are spread so thinly as to almost be rare creatures, it recruited
        its population from all occupations, classes and tribes of the Reich.
        But Berlin has an enormous attractive force that always binds to it the
        human masses that stream to it from every One really does not know why the legend developed, and not only with 
        the enemy but also among certain parts of our own people, that Berlin 
        is especially sensitive to outside threats because of its colorful, thrown-together 
        population. Those parts of the Reich that had already suffered enemy terror 
        bombing were therefore somewhat concerned that the day would come when 
        the Reich capital would have to endure the great test. We Berliners ourselves, 
        sure of our own strength and hardness, were convinced that the proof could 
        only be provided by facts. The Reich capital has had more opportunity 
        to do that in the past three months than it likes. Not many cities in 
        the Reich have undergone the same tests in this war, and Berlin does not 
        need to be embarrassed before any of them. Its population has faced enemy 
        air terror with a bravery that deserves the greatest admiration. No one 
        anywhere in the Reich disputes that, and those abroad as well, as long 
        as they have maintained an accurate and objective outlook, are full of 
        praise and admiration. The Reich capital has passed its great war test.It would naturally be pointless to deny that the enemy has given heavy 
        wounds through his brutal and horrible terror. Until now we have refrained 
        from replying to his boasting accounts of the air war, the cynicism of 
        which can scarcely be surpassed. There will be time enough for that when 
        we once again stand equal. The jubilation in London will be more modest 
        after a relentless German answer, which will once again permit a factual 
        discussion. Even today the German Luftwaffe is responding with gradually 
        growing massive counterattacks, but these are only a foretaste of what 
        is still to come. We can in any event be satisfied that the German capital 
        has remained unbroken under the burden of enemy attacks. The British capital 
        will have opportunity to provide the same proof.In Berlin as in all the other German cities affected by enemy air terror 
        we have learned to simplify our lives, returning to a primitive war style 
        that has taken from us many of the pleasures of everyday life. We are 
        now marching with a lighter pack. Along with the other populations of 
        other German districts affected by heavy enemy air terror, we have learned 
        to do without some things that are still taken for granted in those parts 
        of the Reich that have been spared. It would be an exaggeration to say 
        that has been easy for us. It deeply hurts a city to see significant parts 
        of its housing, its artistic and cultural monuments, its churches, theaters 
        and museums, reduced to soot and ashes. Still, that is bearable when the 
        freedom of the nation and the maintenance of the life substance of a people 
        require it. We have no wish to make that a matter of patriotic pathos. 
        We bear the hard demands that the nation’s fate place on us not with glowing 
        enthusiasm, but with bitter resistance that always gives the strength 
        to overcome the heavy and heaviest blows, opposing them with a spiritual 
        strength that towers over all doubt.That is decisive. A great city earns its face not only through its dwellings, 
        buildings and monuments, but above all through its people. Despite the 
        former widespread view, Berlin is more than an asphalt desert or a collection 
        of big apartment buildings. Over four million industrious and decent people 
        live in its densely populated area. They may be known throughout the Reich 
        for their cool and even skeptical outlook on the problems of life, but 
        a great and brave heart beats behind it all, one able to overcome any 
        danger. The Berliners have given more than sufficient proof of that over 
        the past difficult weeks, showing the German people without saying so 
        that their city is not unworthy to house the leadership of the Reich within 
        its walls, providing thereby the great driving force of our national policy 
        and war leadership.The entire German people has been raptly and intensely following the 
        so-called Battle of Berlin over these past weeks. We can assure it that 
        the battle will end well. The Reich capital will probably endure new blows. 
        There will be even more wounds, scars and tears in its face. Its citizens 
        will pull together even more and learn to deal with even more primitive 
        conditions. But Berlin will not perish. The heart of this city has never 
        beaten so strongly as it does during the nights of heavy bombing, when 
        so to speak the Berliners wipe the blood from their eyes and go to work 
        with bitter defiance. There are miracles of work, splendid organization 
        and an amazing ability to improvise. The city is a true socialist community 
        and the solidarity of all helps to overcome some difficulties that could 
        otherwise easily become impossible. Even at the most critical moments, 
        I have never given this city, its population, its party or its government 
        offices a task that was not resolved with lightning speed. The Berliners 
        do not give up in the face of the misfortunes sent by their hate-filled 
        enemy, but rather they gather their whole strength against them and always 
        overcome them.The intent of the Anglo-American war leadership is doubtless to proletarianize 
        large parts of the German people through air terror, making them ripe 
        for lying and hypocritical divisive propaganda. It is almost a bloody 
        irony that at the same time he drops unimaginable quantities of explosive 
        and incendiary bombs on densely populated residential sections of our 
        large cities, he also rains down thick stacks of hypocritical leaflets. 
        He apparently believes that our men and women who have lost everything 
        through this cowardly and wholly unmilitary method of warfare will sit 
        down in the glow of their burning homes and perhaps by the corpses of 
        their innocent children to read these worthless leaflets, letting themselves 
        be told what they should think about the war by of all people the corrupt 
        British plutocracy. This is how the criminal English leadership imagines 
        the German people. They used such methods to subordinate colonial peoples 
        and plunder them for their capitalist purposes. Now they want to avoid 
        the great battle they fear more than anything else. When our civilian 
        population does all it can to resist, it is playing an active and direct 
        role in the larger war. They are attacked in an unmilitary way, but defend 
        themselves militarily. Their high morale in this pitiless battle is a 
        decisive, perhaps the decisive, factor of the war. From it come all the 
        other forces and virtues needed to master the disaster. If they succeed, 
        their strength and determination grow. Iron is hardened only through hammer 
        blowsOur people has a great task to fulfill in this generation. It must repair 
        many sins and failings of the past to create an indestructible future 
        foundation for our national life. Never before in our history has the 
        historic mission of the German Reich been so concentrated as in the years 
        from 1914 to today. It is the great age that calls us all. There is no 
        holding back, no excuse. What we do or do not do can never be undone, 
        either for good or evil. We are responsible for the most decisive historical 
        epoch of our people. How we resolve it will determine whether we earn 
        the future blessings or curses of our children and grandchildren. As the sky over Berlin begins to turn bloody in the nights of heavy enemy 
        terror attacks, we all think with pain and bitterness of the huge amount 
        of pain and sorrow again descending on thousands of our fellow citizens. 
        Nothing remains undone to help them bear the burden of misfortune. Even 
        during the attack, a huge organization begins to move, and within a few 
        hours its results are everywhere visible. Hard and conscientious work 
        join with passionate fanaticism and bitter rage to achieve ever new major 
        accomplishments.But what could the city’s leadership accomplish were not the entire population 
        behind it, supporting its measures through soldier-like behavior, giving 
        drive and force to the work of restoring our wounded life! Thus it always 
        and everywhere was when the enemy fell on our cities with fire and conflagration 
        and the population had to help themselves to defend their existence. Berlin 
        now stands in the midst of those cities that are marked with sorrow and 
        proud defiance. It wants to be no more than the rest of them. It wants 
        only to show that behind the big words that in the past did not always 
        make it beloved, there are also great deeds when required. What contempt 
        cities such as Hamburg, Essen or Cologne would have for the capital of 
        the Reich if we were weighed in the balance and were found or would be 
        found wanting!It gives occasion to think to everyone else, not only to those cities. 
        The coat of arms of the Reich capital today bears the laurel wreath of 
        military glory that will never fade. Where in these weeks walls fall and 
        buildings collapse, a new Berlin will spring from the ruins, and every 
        brick will bear witness to the heroic courage of a city that remained 
        unbroken, never wavering, despite the severest blows. 
  
