Many of us will have asked ourselves more frequently over
      the five years that this war has gone on why it is so especially
      difficult for the German people to build its national life and
      its future, why it must make such sacrifices and take on such
      burdens, things that other happier peoples are spared, or even
      know absolutely nothing about. These questions are more than
      justified. Not only must we fight for our existence with all
      we have in this war, our whole history is nothing but a path
      of enormous sorrow. Other peoples reached great or world power
      status much more easily than we did and today they have such
      substantial resources that the length of the war hardly seems
      to have a material effect on them. We to the contrary must work
      and slave by the sweat of our brow, and our enemies object to
      the little that we can call our own.Is not fate treating us unjustly and do we not have cause to complain? 
        In no way! Our people is the product of its racial characteristics, its 
        geopolitical situation, and its historical development. The question is 
        only whether it has made and makes all that is possible to make from the 
        material and ideals it has, and whether this will continue to be true 
        in the future. This is a question we must answer ourselves.Not only our difficult situation, but also our hard and unbendable national 
        character is the result of these conditions. Just as the life struggle 
        of the individual forms his personality, so it is in the lives of peoples. 
        That the German people possesses more character strengths than any other 
        cannot be denied. Ask friend or foe as you wish. For centuries the Reich 
        has been the yeast not only of Europe, but also of the whole world. It 
        is possible to imagine the absence of this or that people from human history 
        with no great change or impact. That is impossible with the German people. 
        Until the Thirty Years War and after, even during centuries of impotence 
        and fragmentation, German history was European history. We gave humanity 
        its pioneers. Even in the circles of our enemies, we were called the nation 
        of poets, philosophers, and inventors. But how can that be reconciled 
        with the fact that we have had so few successes on the field of power 
        politics?The answer to this question is all too clear: It is because
      we are of greater value than other peoples, not lesser. Our general
      fate and the geopolitical location of the Reich simply force
      us to work harder to develop our national life than our few friends
      and many enemies. The resulting natural superiority makes us
      hated and unloved. We must work harder than other peoples if
      we are even to survive. For this reason they try to keep us from
      achieving equality or resist us, since they know that if we had
      the same opportunities as they, we would soon have the advantage
      over them. They fear the unstoppable rhythm of our national growth,
      the intensity of our productive force, the genius of our inventive
      spirit, the high level of our national morale and national discipline,
      all of which are the result not only of our racial characteristics
      and our political education, but also of our cramped living conditions.
      No matter how far back in history we look, our people has always
      been surrounded by danger. But where the danger is not deadly,
      it increases strength. That is the case with the German people.
      It has grown through danger, reaching heights of national ability
      that no other people can even approach.This conclusion in no way springs from a sense of national arrogance. 
        It is constantly strengthened and affirmed by the facts of this war. We 
        are holding on to our continent in this fifth year against the assault 
        of four world powers, not to mention many open and hidden lesser enemies, 
        essentially alone, dependent only on ourselves. What other people on earth 
        could do that? Our enemies have repeatedly underestimated our powers of 
        resistance because they are simply incapable of imagining it given the 
        standards that prevail by them. We may be forced to surrender territory 
        in the east to keep our defensive lines intact, but should not forget 
        amid these setbacks that no other people would be able to resist at all. 
        The English and Americans admire Soviet military successes. How much more 
        must they admire us, who are conducting the war in the east against a 
        people double our size, supplied with rich assistance, and with only half 
        of our national strength. In Italy the human and material superiority 
        of two world powers cannot reach their goal against a small fraction of 
        our army. Imagine how the battle would be if we had such superiority and 
        our enemies were surrounded on every side as we are today! The question 
        answers itself.One can understand why the historically unique heights of war morale 
        and war capacity of the German people always make our enemies nervous. 
        They fear giving us the initiative, which would present them with unforeseeable 
        consequences. That also explains their howls of hatred against the Reich, 
        which are only the result of their inferiority complex. If we are to have 
        a chance of success, we must be more steadfast than they, we must fight 
        more bravely, work harder, and live with greater discipline. The pitiless 
        demand of these virtues is also our advantage and our strength over the 
        enemy. In every war there comes the point when victory depends on these 
        virtues. At the decisive hour the people will better use them than ever 
        before. In other words, our present sorrows and difficulties are not only 
        a burden to us, but also training. It is certainly true that the well-to-do 
        generally enjoy a more comfortable life than hard-working laborers, who 
        earn their daily bread through the sweat of their brow. Yet when the critical 
        hour comes when life itself must be defended, the workers have the advantage 
        for they have had the most experience in fighting for life. The Spartan 
        attitude that our exposed and limited situation has forced on us for centuries 
        is the real cause of our national virtues, and also the reason for the 
        hatred and persecution of our enemies. One is the result of the other; 
        they are bound together.This war is a battle between higher quality and higher numbers.
      Its course and above all its length depend primarily on strengthening
      and preserving that which separates us from our enemies. Therein
      lies our hope of victory. If ever a people had no reason to feel
      inferior, it is our people in its present situation. Even setbacks,
      if they are properly accepted and borne, can only strengthen
      our conviction of superiority. We were not the cause of this
      war; our enemies forced it upon us. From the beginning, they
      have made it plain that their goal was to destroy our life substance
      and destroy us as a people. The fact that they have attacked
      us with such numerical superiority is more proof than none of
      them dares to take us on alone. That our people has held its
      own so far, and will do so in the future, must give us all reason
      for pride, for unshakeable national self-confidence. We may never
      forget that no other people in the world is capable or in the
      situation to be able to withstand such a test of its life strength
      as we Germans today. We need only imagine what would happen if
      we faced one of our enemies alone, although they are with the
      exception of England each superior to us in population and resources,
      to know how little ground for triumph our enemies have and how
      much cause we have for faith in ourselves.No people can choose the conditions under which it lives and maintains 
        itself, not even we Germans. They develop from many conditions from which 
        the present generation at least cannot escape. As far as the material 
        aspects of the war go, our conditions are anything but favorable when 
        compared to our opponents. But the resulting superiority of character, 
        morality, and ideals balance out the material superiority of our enemies, 
        if only we use them fully. We hold our fate in our hands. The German people 
        today, in the truest sense of the words, is the blacksmith of its own 
        happiness, and not only of those living today, but of  generations 
        yet to come. It is understandable that we sometimes lose sight of the 
        high obligation we owe the future in the midst of the pressure of everyday 
        life and the steadily growing sorrows and burdens of the war. That obligation 
        is there nonetheless. This person or that may ask here or there what he 
        still has to lose. His house and possessions have gone up in flames. His 
        own life seems of little value in view of the gnawing pain of the loss 
        of his loved ones. That question, however bitter it may be to those affected, 
        is egotistical. Even he who has suffered the hardest, most terrible blows 
        in this war still has something to lose: the future of his people.This has absolutely nothing to do with national pathos. We have not the 
        least desire, nor any ability, to engage in arrogant nationalistic preaching. 
        We only see things clearly and realistically. Whether justly or unjustly, 
        whether from its own guilt or that of preceding generations, our generation 
        has a German mission to fulfill, a mission that seems almost beyond human 
        capacity. It must master an age that commands life to be formed but not 
        enjoyed. Such an age will be better endured by those whose whole nature 
        and temperament are better suited to forming life rather than enjoying 
        it. But neither the one nor the other can escape the age. It is our absolute 
        lord and master. For some the absence of the spiritual and intellectual 
        matters that ennoble life, and which are made almost impossible by this 
        war, may be as hard or even harder than the loss by others of a pound 
        of butter or a side of ham. Neither might find the loss of the other particularly 
        difficult. But each must face the categorical imperative that the duties 
        and tasks that the war and his people place on him.This has nothing to do with the fact that we may mourn the loss of our 
        possessions or of a loved one. That we can scarcely forget. We all respect 
        the sorrow that affects the individual, and the higher one is, the more 
        one feels the pain of millions. If there were a way to spare our people 
        its sorrow, we would be the first to reach for it with both hands. There 
        is no such way. We must pass through this valley of pain, for only at 
        its end does the great prize glimmer. We cannot and will not give it up. 
        It will crown and justify our sacrifice. All that we have so far willingly 
        and patiently endured will receive its meaning. If we do not succeed, 
        all will have been meaningless. Our own lives and that of our people would 
        fall into a darkness from which no bright and beautiful day would ever 
        dawn.Against that, what are the enemy’s hysterical screams of hate and revenge! 
        They will fade at the hour the war ends and the goddess of history gives 
        us the laurels. From the sounds of this war will rise the heroic fame 
        of our fighting people, which trusting only in its own strength and loyal 
        through all the twists of war’s fortunes stayed at the post history had 
        given it. Then we will understand why it so hard for us: To prove that 
        we could use our full strength, holding back nothing, that we could grow 
        even beyond our imaginings, giving an example to all other peoples. And 
        above all, so that in the face of this century’s growing skepticism we 
        could prove that the West was not ready for decline, but rather that it 
        stands at a new beginning. The great cultural crisis that fell on civilized 
        humanity with the First World War must be overcome. That is possible only 
        through an abundance of life will and life determination that is shown 
        only by fate’s hardest tests. Perhaps Europe will one day realize how 
        close it stood to the abyss. This will bring the admiration for our actions 
        that is today withheld. That is how it will be, not otherwise.If amidst the worst burdens of this war one gave us the choice, we would 
        never change places with any people under happier circumstances. We choose 
        our own. How could the fact that our people must fight for its existence 
        confuse our thinking? Now more than ever we give it our whole love and 
        all our power and strength. In the storms that rage around us, we are 
        prouder than ever before to be German. 