 To live and work in a frequently bombed city is not something anyone
         enjoys today. We hardly need mention the tremendous burdens enemy air
         terror puts on those who suffer it. They lose their homes and their
        possessions,  and often their dearest loved ones meet grisly, miserable
        death in basements and shelters during firestorms. The little they are
        able to rescue from the ruins often stands outside in the rain and snow
        for days without being moved. And when one believes he has found a halfway
        safe place, a week  later it too may fall to the flames. Family keepsakes
        that symbolize an  entire life are buried in the ruins of homes and buildings.
        Often people  save only the bare essentials, sometimes not even that.Still weary and exhausted from putting out the fires, those

      who have been bombed out must find some kind of clothing, secure

      the necessary papers, and seek some sort of primitive shelter.

      Party and city offices do everything they can to ease the process,

      but it remains miserable work. Here and there public transportation

      fails. He must walk to work if a friendly motorist does not happen

      to be going in the same direction. That evening the air raid

      sirens may sound again. Once again he has to head for the basement

      or a shelter. It thunders around him for another hour. He lost

      touch with his family in the afternoon, and is deeply worried

      about them, a helpless mother or the father who provides for

      the family. Once again the sky is blood red. The fire engines

      rush by, sirens blaring. And again he has to go to work, to defend

      his beloved hometown, and to save what can be saved from the

      still burning buildings.We certainly do not want those cities so far spared enemy

      air terror to experience it. Still, virtues are born under enemy

      bombing that one encounters only rarely in such depth and power

      in ordinary times: the virtue of solidarity above all. Enemy

      air terror is the university of community spirit. It reveals

      what people really are. One may live for years next to a man whom

      one thinks could rip up trees with his bare hands. Under the

      hail of enemy bombs and phosphorus canisters, he turns out to

      be a miserable creature interested in nothing but saving his

      own life. Another, who went about his business quietly and without

      fuss, suddenly reveals himself to be a real hero, almost deified

      by his neighbors, since even in the midst of the gravest danger

      he has a friendly word of good cheer and encouragement that works

      miracles. People generally show their stuff only when times are

      critical.We cannot help loving the city of Berlin more today than ever

      before, even with its heavy wounds. After another night of bombing,

      public transportation may not be working. We see a stream of

      men and women walking through the wide avenues for two or three

      hours to reach their workplaces. The men are unshaven and rumpled.

      The women may be wearing pants and a simple pullover, carrying

      a small suitcase with the essentials under their arms. Such a

      sight makes us appreciate this brave city of millions from the

      bottom of our hearts, and in a way we could not do before. We

      know then that we are more at home here than we could be in any

      other city in the world. We feel a part of all these unknown

      people. We have to thank them for loyally and diligently doing

      their duty, fanatically and faithfully. Their silent and unemotional

      behavior proves that they do not want to be worn down, and therefore

      cannot be worn down.It is the same in all the other frequently bombed cities of

      the Reich: Cologne, Essen, Hamburg, Mannheim, Frankfurt, and everywhere

      else where the enemy indulges in orgies of air terror. We know

      them all, and our high opinion of them is always justified yet

      again. If the enemy believes he has brought life to a standstill,

      he is mistaken. They all manage to continue life under war conditions.

      They must give up much that is still taken for granted in areas

      not subject to enemy air terror. That is not important to them.

      They simply cannot be beaten down. One could fill libraries with

      stories of the anguish that nights of bombing bring. But life

      goes on. After a few days, water, gas, and electricity return.

      Public transportation begins functioning again, perhaps with

      a jolt here or there, but that is borne with patience, even grim

      humor. Everyone has something to eat and a place to sleep. Stovepipes

      smoke once more over the ruins and the curious stick their noses

      out to see what is going on. In a word, people are getting along

      again.Do not think we are making things better than they are, or

      turning it into a kind of poetry. Things are much too serious

      for that. Still, we deeply admire the indestructible rhythm of

      life and the unbreakable will to live of our big city population.

      They are not as rootless as well-meaning but purely theoretical

      books used to say. Look at the workers from the Ruhr, the Rhineland,

      Hamburg, Berlin, and everywhere else. They are an example of patriotism

      and national pride. Their sense of duty, their courage, their

      cheerful coarseness that helps them overcome even the worst,

      the hard work they do in the armaments factories even while their

      homes are still burning! The vital strength of our people is

      anchored as solidly here as it is in German farmers. When has

      one ever heard a trace of defeatism or panic in the big cities!

      What city has been deserted by its population, and where did

      the leadership have more trouble getting the workers back to

      their jobs that it had moving those not working!Who can object when people in those areas talk about the air

      war when they come together after an attack? Each had his own

      encounter with fate, and each wants to talk about it. He has

      every right to do so. We have a coworker who has been bombed

      out five times already, and everyone knocks on wood if she is

      around when the air raid alert sounds. She is the exception;

      fate is usually random. He who today has been spared sees it

      as his plain duty to provide shelter in his small apartment for

      those who have been bombed out, since he knows that he may depend

      on his neighbors for the same favor tomorrow. People need no

      compulsion to behave that way. They do not see it as in any way

      unusual. It has to be that way; otherwise we could not survive.

      It has to be done. After the last heavy attacks on the Reich

      capital, the last homeless person had found quarters within a

      week. It took that long primarily because most did not want to

      leave their section of the city.We will never forget a typical conversation with an old Berlin woman 
        worker from Wedding Many hearts shake when the bombs fall. We do not deny it.

      But the life rhythm of hundreds of thousands carries along the

      weak and wavering. A pause! Already the brave are out on the

      rooftops with pails of water to put out the fires. Back to the

      basements and shelters. New attacks, new defense, then the all

      clear. As if directed by a magician’s hand, the whole city is

      in motion, taking up battle with enemy forces. One gives way

      only when human strength can no longer resist the elements. It’s

      all over here, let’s get to work somewhere else! Our civilian

      population is singing a quiet heroic song that will live on far

      into the future. If our generation did no more than this during

      the war, it would be immortal. Our ruined cities will be rebuilt

      and the last scars will fade. Only then will the fame of their

      citizens shine with its true force. Only then will our people

      realize the heights of courage and bravery that rise from our

      battles with fate.We have no cause to discuss these matters with the enemy.

      They have no ability to understand. They are using air terror

      solely to terrorize. They cannot understand that they will never

      reach their goal. They do not see that they are driving our people

      together, not apart. It will take drastic measures to persuade

      them that in the long run the air war is neither materially nor

      morally productive. The discussion is only beginning, but it

      will not be long before we are forced to give the enemy far more

      persuasive proof. The British people above all will be forced

      to prove whether they in the fifth year of the war possess the

      same steadfastness as the German people. The worst of this phase

      of the war is behind us. England is facing it. We did not break.

      The British must still endure the trial. Whatever happens, we

      know the horrors of modern war, and we also know that they can

      be overcome.Life goes on in the ruins and rubble of our bombed cities.

      It is not as rich and full as it once was. But we are standing

      firmly on our feet and have not the least desire to fall on our

      knees. As we bury our dead in Mother Earth, our burning eyes

      rise to see the vision of the coming Reich for which we bear

      these heavy sacrifices. We must be sure they are not in vain.

      We have seen mothers and children, sometimes even fathers, weep

      at a grave side too often ever to forget it. The men, women, and

      children who gave their lives in the air war stand in the middle

      of the army of those who have fallen on every front. They died

      for the eternity of the Reich. As comrades fight on to fulfill

      their legacy, so also it is our duty to work on to realize the

      historical claim of those who fell at home. A people that makes

      so many sacrifices to defend its life and honor can never be

      defeated. It will victoriously overcome all the war’s obstacles

      and in the end win the place in the sun that it deserves, a place

      that no power on earth can in the long run keep it from gaining.The longer we wait for the hour of deliverance, the greater

      will be the victory. Victory is always the result of a people’s

      willingness to sacrifice, of its affirmation of life and its

      faith in its future, of its unwillingness to be distracted, of

      the steadfastness and loyalty with which it defends itself. The

      pain and anguish the enemy brings to the individual may at times

      seem almost unbearable. Still, we will survive, for we have no

      other choice. In view of the alternative, there can be no weakness

      or surrender. The nation has made its position clear, and it

      cannot be shaken even by the terror of barbaric war.The ruins of our cities are a reminder to us all, even for

      those thus far spared the enemy’s air terror. The fact that life

      goes on even amidst the ruins of our destroyed city districts

      proves the vital strength of our people, which is ready to bear

      the worst to preserve its freedom. Freedom is our dearest treasure.

      We will serve it steadfastly through the storms of war, following

      it like the good star that shines through the dark night to show

      the way to the coming dawn. 