 The invasion of the European coast by the Western powers is the central 
        military event of the summer. It deserves our first attention in considering 
        the overall war situation. It would be a mistake to attempt at this point 
        an evaluation of the enemy’s goals and the political and military prospects 
        resulting from them. It is too early for that yet. Things are still in 
        motion. Neither side has a clear advantage, nor is that to be expected 
        in the present situation. It was clear from the start that the Western 
        Powers would make a stronger attack on the Atlantic Wall than they did 
        at Dieppe. This time, both attackers and defenders know that it is all 
        or nothing. London and Washington did not leave a back door open this 
        time. It took some violence to the facts, but the enemy could say of Dieppe 
        that it was no more than an attempt at carrying out a raid along the Channel 
        coast. That is not possible this time.We and our opponents are committed. The clash of weapons on the French 
        Atlantic Coast is also a clash of spirit and outlook. The fact that it 
        took the English and Americans so long to begin the adventure is a sign 
        that they know as well as we do what it means. And not only we and they: 
        it is clear to all of Europe, indeed to the whole world. It has been made 
        sufficiently clear that Churchill and Roosevelt undertook the invasion 
        only after ceaseless pressure from the Kremlin, pressure that bordered 
        on extortion. Stalin, as we have often said, has a long arm. The piles 
        of human corpses that the enemy has heaped up on the Channel coast serve 
        only Bolshevism. The best the English and Americans can hope for is to 
        weaken the German army to the degree that it will not be able to maintain 
        its struggle against the Soviet Union. But if they succeed, they will 
        have bled to such an extent that they will not be able to defend Europe 
        against the arrival of Bolshevism. This is the political background against 
        which the military drama of the invasion is occurring.Things are exactly the opposite of the way British-American plutocracy 
        wanted them to be. They had hoped to see the German army and the Red army 
        bleed themselves dry while they looked on. The Anglo-American attack in 
        the West has transformed the situation. No one denies the fact that English 
        and American casualties in the battles on the French coast have been intolerably 
        high. Even on the first day of the invasion, they were so dreadfully high 
        that the London and New York war correspondents who were there sent back 
        cries of horror. The English press tried to play down or conceal the facts, 
        apparently at the behest of the government. The American public, however, 
        protested the sugar-coated coverage that stood in glaring contrast to 
        the true situation. The world agrees that England and the USA are suffering 
        casualties that they cannot long tolerate without endangering their position 
        in the world.Stalin has every reason to watch the goings on with satisfaction. It 
        has long been no secret that the foolish and shortsighted policies of 
        its prime minister have made England dependent on the favor of Bolshevism. 
        It previously had at least some military reserves that could be used to 
        defend its vital interests, but these are slowly but surely being devoured 
        by the hellish battle along the Atlantic. Not much will remain. One has 
        to ask if England can survive this undertaking, even if it technically 
        is victorious, something that is not at all sure. Does that which it may 
        gain bear any reasonable relation to the costs? The answer is a clear 
        no.It is impossible to give the public a clear and accurate picture

      of the military situation in the West at present. The political

      balance of power, on the other hand, is clear. Even at the beginning

      of the invasion, the London While mounds of dead British and American soldiers are piling up along 
        the west coast of Europe, the English press reports that profits are piling 
        upon the London stock exchange. Wildly gesticulating speculators and profiteers 
        are jumping about in their excitement. They have every reason, since the 
        hour of Big Business has come with the great battles along the Atlantic 
        Wall. Stock prices leapt up, and profits of a billion marks were made 
        in a single day. The prize question: Since nothing comes from nothing, 
        who won this billion and who lost it? We presume the poor English soldier 
        fighting for his life in the awful bloodbath in the west did not suddenly 
        make his fortune on the stock exchange. He will return from the war just 
        as poor, if not much poorer, as he went into it. The only ones richer 
        will be the men behind the scenes at the Jewish hate newspapers, those 
        who guide the program of hatred and annihilation directed against the 
        German people, the profiteers and patrons, draft-dodgers and speculators, 
        who make good business out of patriotism and build their capitalist towers 
        atop mounds of soldiers’ corpses. Their supreme patron and profiteer is 
        Winston Churchill. He is the guilty one. He embodies plutocratic reaction. 
        He has the full responsibility for the vast misfortune that this war has 
        brought upon the world, and now is heading toward his own people with 
        giant steps.The victims of world plutocracy are marching on. They come

      from distant Canada, a nation that could easily support thirty

      or even fifty million additional people if its leaders served

      their nation rather than world plutocracy. They are the sons

      of the vast American continent almost bursting with wealth and

      riches, but in which normally a third of the population goes

      hungry because plutocracy wants it that way and because it puts

      business above the good of the working masses. They come from

      England, whose corrupt ruling class rules over a world empire

      in which millions of people starve despite adequate resources

      because the Lords and Money Jews speak of civilization in newspapers

      and churches, but otherwise serve only the god of money. They

      cannot allow a nation on an awakening continent to build a society

      based on new, more noble and moral principles. Thus the farmers’

      sons from the USA and Canada and the miners’ sons from Wales

      die in front of German machine guns while the Jews on the London

      stock exchange foam at the mouth to get those rising stocks.Meanwhile, as Mr. Roosevelt recently told the nation, he retired

      to his bedroom to write a prayer to read over the radio. What

      does one say? One has to ask oneself if one even belongs in a

      world in which such grotesque and awful things happen. They pray

      hypocritical, self-satisfied prayers for victory to a god of

      business whom they have created in their own image, and expect

      that he will help them enslave a part of the world that is attempting

      to live modestly from its own resources. This they cannot tolerate,

      out of greed and envy. Blood must flow in streams, English, American,

      and also German mothers and children must weep, the earth must

      open up to receive the innocent victims of this terrible tragedy.

      Where is their an escape from the confusion of feelings and facts,

      and where is the solution to this riddle within a riddle?We are the only ones who have the answer. We saw it all coming.

      We know that it cannot be otherwise, that we must plow through

      this inferno until the light of day is suddenly visible at its

      end. It would be a fatal error for the German people to believe

      that this gigantic battle in the west of our continent was an

      easy and safe undertaking that could or would change the balance

      of the war through a quick miracle. We are facing two world powers.

      Neither has failed to make the preparations it hopes will overcome

      us and bring success. Our soldiers too are making great sacrifices.

      They are displaying bravery and heroism in these days and weeks

      that may not surpass all that has gone before in this war, but

      certainly equal it. We are at the gravest and most serious point

      of the war. Ignoring the threat to our nation’s life would be

      more than cynical. We need not be afraid, but neither may we

      be overconfident. The war is not over yet, nor is there any sign

      that it will be over today or tomorrow. We must grit our teeth

      and work through its thorns and thickets. That is the only way

      we will bring it to an end.The critical arenas of this war are not found in any single direction. 
        They will shift from here to there, without changing the fundamental nature 
        of the war. We are fighting for our lives both to the east and to the 
        west. Our soldiers above all must know that. They will not waver, nor 
        lose their nerve even for a moment in the midst of this modern technical 
        war. They have a duty to the homeland that has endured the terrible suffering 
        of the air war for month after month. The homeland never thought of doing 
        anything that would weaken our soldiers. The war reaches from the front 
        to the homeland and back again, and no one who lives in peace today can 
        be sure that he will not tomorrow face a hail of bombs and shells. Everyone 
        is fighting for the whole cause. Solders must realize that the nation 
        is watching as they do their duty. It is never easy to risk one’s life, 
        but a nation that lacks enough men, and if necessary women and children, 
        who are prepared to do that is near the end of its history.Who can believe that of the German people? Our soldiers in

      the west are fighting as well as their fathers did in 1917 and

      1918. They will not flinch or fail. In contrast to those days,

      they know that today they have a homeland that is worthy of their

      bravery. The homeland raises its suffering hand as a blessing

      for its sons who defend it with their bodies. The path to the

      Reich is over their dead bodies. The nation looks calmly to coming

      events. It knows that its fate and its life are in good hands. 