 As our V-1s raced over the English Channel for the first time during
         the night of 16 June, the English public was struck by paralyzing fear.
         The British Home Secretary Morrison saw himself forced to speak to the
         House of Commons the next morning about the use of our new weapon of
        revenge.  He did that in a very tortured manner, openly admitting the
        seriousness  of the situation for the British capital, but also attempting
        to reduce  or even deny the serious effects of our revenge weapon. He
        apparently  believed that he could deceive us about the extent of the
        damage caused,  which was not possible, since our months of tests gave
        us opportunity  to understand the new V-1 weapon in every detail, in
        particular its accuracy  and explosive force. But there was yet another
        crucial reason behind the  British home secretary’s attempt to make our
        first revenge weapon ridiculous.  He did not want to give foreign countries
        the chance to learn the effects  of the V-1, particularly since English
        government circles hoped to develop  sufficient defensive measures. These
        hopes have proved vain. Nearly every  day, the London press wrote about
        a new and effective, or even more effective,  defensive measure, but
        none of them so far has been able to stop our V-1s  from flying undisturbed,
        and in large numbers, toward London.Now the English government has given up its attempts to deceive its
        own public and the world as to the extent of the damage. Indeed, they
        are increasingly doing the opposite, dramatizing things in an emotional
        manner to arouse the world’s sympathy, and making every effort at injured
        or tortured innocence. The English are making such efforts to appear
        the good guy that one has to assume that they do not realize how ridiculous
        that looks. It is enough to recall all their praise few months ago for
        the brutal and cynical attacks of the Anglo-American air forces on the
        German civilian population. When we spoke then of the barbaric nature
        of such a method of warfare, London replied with mocking laughter. They
        thought it no longer necessary to wear a humanitarian mask. One had the
        power, one was on the way down from the mountain peak, and the Reich
        was no longer a subject, merely the object, of the war. One could do
        to it what one wanted. Even more than that, in fact; Germany had to be
        treated in a way formerly used only on defenseless Negro tribes. One
        no longer paid any heed to the world public or the conscience of the
        world, which one had so often called upon before. That is how it was
        if we look back to the beginning of the year. The Western enemies no
        longer even bothered to keep up appearances. They openly and cynically
        named their bombs “blockbusters,” 
        and gave their “Flying Fortresses” names like “Murder,
         Inc.” The English in particular showed their true nature in the
         plainest  manner, without covering anything up.When we modestly said that we might still have a word or two to say in 
        this regard, that we were preparing new weapons of revenge that would 
        one day fall on England, those in London fell over laughing, and asked 
        us witty questions about whether these new weapons were invented by propagandists 
        rather than scientists and engineers. We did not then think it necessary 
        to persuade the English of the correctness of our announcements. We knew 
        that sooner than the English public would like, facts would speak louder 
        than words. And England has certainly lost the desire to laugh. Even its 
        prime minister, who is usually so fond of cynical jokes, found nothing 
        funny to say about the V-1 in his last speech to the House of Commons. 
        And one has the impression that the London press cannot and will not trivialize 
        things as much as the British home secretary apparently wished. For the 
        first few days, English newspapers called our V-1 the “doodlebug.” 
        Now they call them “robot bombs.” That alone shows the change 
        in their opinion from yesterday to today.No one can say that the English have given up their appeals to humanity
         and the conscience of the world in this regard. They made too much of
         that during their major and successful terror attacks on the German
        civilian  population. Back then, we warned of what is happening today,
        and said  that we were taking careful note of the most cynical voices
        of British  public opinion on the bombing war, since we would be able
        to make good  use of them one day. Now that time has come. It is not
        persuasive for  London to insist that the German V-1 lacks the accuracy
        and military value  that British night attacks on the German homeland
        last winter presumably  had. One need only look at bombed German cities
        to readily prove the very  opposite. If the Royal Air Force’s bombs actually
        did have some accuracy,  British pilots made no use of it when attacking
        the German civilian population.  They above all chose the cultural centers
        and heavily populated residential  areas of our cities to bomb, largely
        destroying them, while British public  opinion, including its prime minster
        and archbishop, applauded. Those  English newspapers that write that
        England will be repaid for what it  did are correct. It does not take
        great prophetic gifts to say that, since  in contrast to our usuall modesty,
        we predicted it clearly dozens of  times.The newest English objection to the V-1 is that it is vile and unfair, 
        since it is not directed by anyone on our side, but kills and injures 
        people on the enemy side. That is not persuasive. Almost the same thing 
        could be said of British night bombing attacks. Last winter, the weather 
        was so bad that our night fighters were unable to take off. Yet those 
        were just the nights the British preferred for their attacks on the German 
        homeland. When we objected, London told us coldly and bluntly that the 
        purpose of war was to employ and lose as few of one’s own men as possible, 
        not as many, and to cause the enemy as much damage as possible, not as 
        little. Is not our V-1 the perfect fulfillment of this British desire, and does 
        anyone doubt that if the English themselves had this weapon, they would 
        make full use of it, and would also be able to find reasons to claim it 
        was fair and moral? In London, the newspapers are screaming for revenge.They 
        do this only to make the world forget that our V-1 attacks are already 
        revenge. If the English could take revenge, they would not hesitate. They 
        and their U.S. ally have enough airplanes at their disposal. These, however, 
        are needed for the invasion beachhead. Were they to be taken from there, 
        it would be an advantage for us that is not to be underestimated, which 
        itself proves that, despite British claims, our V-1 has clear military 
        goals and purposes. The English do not want to admit that because they 
        are appealing to the world’s pity.We do not want to cynically welcome the use of our first revenge weapon, 
        or look forward with glee to coming ones. We would have been happy if 
        it had been possible to conduct the war, also the air war, in a humane 
        and knightly manner. But it was the English who did not want that. They 
        never accepted proposals that would have been good for the fighting armies 
        and peoples. As is well known, this attitude on the part of the British 
        cabinet was responsible for the war back in 1939. But London will not 
        listen to reason. One deludes oneself, and comes to the wrong conclusion.How often over the past months has the English government used its captive
         press to claim either that there were no German secret weapons, or that
         if there were, London knew all about them and was prepared for them.
        If  they did not exist, how can they be in use, and if London knew all
        about  them, how is it possible that our V-1s are flying undisturbed
        toward London,  that women and children are being evacuated from the
        British capital,  that the larger part of London’s population is sleeping
        in packed subway  stations, and that, as English newspapers report, the
        British people can  only talk about German revenge weapons — but
        yet the English government  has taken no defensive measures? Although
        we have the most cause to be  satisfied, we take no pleasure in the desolation
        our revenge is causing  in London. We see is only as a defensive measure
        that is having an effect.  We even shudder to think about what the British
        capital has to expect  from our future and more deadly revenge weapons.Our revenge action is not at an end, but at its beginning. Military experts 
        far and wide are of the opinion that our revenge weapons are a revolution 
        in military technology. What will they say when our newest and even more 
        impressive weapons come into use! Did London really think that we would 
        simply allow Anglo-American air terror to continue without objection? 
        That we would not take appropriate steps? It may be that the enemy’s scientists 
        are ahead of German scientists in one area or another of military technology, 
        even if their work is based on German research that we unfortunately saw 
        the military significance of too late.However, one would underestimate German thoroughness and German scientific 
        fanaticism if he assumed that our institutes and laboratories had given 
        up. They have done more than the enemy likes. Their latest inventions 
        are nearly all finished. Some are in the final testing stages, but most 
        are already in production. We are not among those who see technology as 
        the single decisive factor in modern warfare, but it is important. In 
        the past, the enemy was ahead of us in technology, we were ahead in morale. 
        Morale and technology together lead to victory. We can and will surpass 
        him in technology, but he cannot and will not surpass us in morale. That 
        is the decisive advantage on which we must build. Here will we see who 
        in the end has the most endurance.For our enemy, modern warfare has little to do with humanity. They have 
        been hard and uncompromising toward us; we must face them in the same 
        hard and uncompromising way. They will use every method of warfare they 
        have against us, if it has any prospect of success. We have to do the 
        same to save our necks. We are ahead in one area, they in another. It 
        depends on who fights with the greatest fanaticism, who has the better 
        ideas, who the better morale on the battlefield. He will win. It is not 
        important where the last battle is fought, rather that one has enough 
        regiments and divisions, and that they fight as well on the last day of 
        the war as they did on the first. The fortunes of war will always shift. 
        He who wants to accomplish great things must also accept great risks and 
        dangers. That is what proves the hard and manly character of a warring 
        nation — the determination to defend its life and freedom to the 
        last breath, never showing even the slightest sign of weakness. The stronger 
        peoples will win this war, and they alone will have the moral and historical 
        right to form a new world, for they have earned it with their blood and 
        with the lives of their best sons. The weapons that they use are signs 
        of their inventive genius and their unbreakable will for national existence 
        and freedom. Those weapons do not determine success by themselves. More 
        important is the morale of a people, its firm determination to fight and 
        to win, its absolute faith in the justice of its cause. We have all of 
        that. The enemy has only greater numbers, and better technology for a 
        while in a few areas.We must catch up in those areas and surpass him.We speak neither from a sense of superiority nor of weakness. We are
         absolutely confident of our cause, even though we have had severe trials.
         We would have had to doubt the duration of our victory if France had
        fallen  to us without a fight in summer 1940. That would have been too
        easy for  us, and we could hardly have survived the later hard tests.
        Fate can be  mastered only through hard struggle. When the war is over,
        we will all  know the price that we have paid. No one then will be willing
        to endanger  what we have gained through carelessness or a lack of alertness.The coming victory will belong to all of us, for we will all have fought, 
        worked, and suffered for it. We will therefore make its results a matter 
        for the people as well, both its benefits as well as its costs. Today 
        everyone must stand firm, fanatically and without compromising. The nation 
        is called to that. It lacks neither means nor opportunities; it need only 
        use them. If it does that, it can look to the coming storms with sovereign 
        confidence. They resemble nature’s thunderstorms that break over the cities 
        and countryside with elemental force, but then suddenly, as if by a divine 
        hand, the darkness of the heavens is parted and the sun begins to shine 
        again. 