 The one good aspect to 20 July was that it brought each of us to attention. 
        Suddenly the nation stood before an abyss and peered into its terrifying 
        depth. Everyone realized what the failed attempt against the Führer 
        and his top military advisors would have meant. The whole nation realized 
        that its very existence might have ended had the plans of the traitorous 
        Putsch clique succeeded. It is easy to sit in judgment of this or that 
        measure when a strong government is in control. That does not necessarily 
        mean one does not support the government. A nation realizes what such 
        a government means only when it for a moment faces the possibility of 
        losing it. Only then does the nation see the real value of an authority 
        that everyone takes for granted, and to which everyone, without exception, 
        gives the right to rule and to decide. What would these nitpickers do 
        if that authority suddenly disappeared? At such a time as this, a strong 
        hand at the helm is the most important prerequisite to keep things going, 
        and ultimately to win the victory. Few successes are the result of luck 
        or accident; nearly all have to be won in a hard battle with fate. The 
        historical burdens bound to such successes can only be mastered by a personality 
        of historic scale. If that personality is lacking, the struggle is hopeless 
        from the start.The German people made major decisions on 20 July and the days following and the leadership could not and did not hesitate to carry them out. None 
        of these decisions weakened us; all of them were aimed at increasing and 
        concentrating our war effort. There is no more eloquent proof of the level 
        of German war morale. A nation that after five years of such a war has 
        no thought but to work harder and fight more bravely than ever before, 
        and that responds to such an attack on the life of its Führer, and 
        thereby its own life, with such a wave of confidence and faith, is certain 
        of victory. It need only work resolutely and loyally, undismayed by the 
        dangers and difficulties it faces. At the end of the war the balance 
        will be drawn. Victory can be won neither by cheating nor swindling; the 
        nations must win it honestly, and each action or lack of action is a step 
        toward it or away from it. If 20 July has any larger meaning it is this: 
        It brought each one of us back to the essence of our struggle for existence 
        and reminded us that we have overcome many obstacles in the past, but 
        there are things still worse that could not be overcome.The total war that is to be realized step by step has both

      a moral and a material side. It is true that the duties and obligations

      of each German toward the war effort are laid out more extensively

      than before in laws, regulations and rules. However, there remains

      room for individual initiative. It is more than a matter of bringing

      to bear the not yet fully used reserves of German fighting and

      working strength. The war is more than a military, political,

      and economic matter. It is also a matter of morale and worldview,

      and we must deal with them along with the material issues. Each

      of us must start with himself, if he wants to change the course

      of the war in the way each of us longs for. Many of us have given

      ourselves too much consideration, and have not become stronger

      and firmer as a result. One individual passed along the hardest

      burdens of the war to another, who in turn decided he was not

      up to them either, and that the war could and would be won without

      him. This viewpoint is as despicable as it is ominous. We find

      ourselves in no bed of roses, and must use our full strength

      if our chances of victory are to remain undiminished. More than

      ever before, we are a fighting community on board the same ship

      that is plowing through stormy seas. It will either bring us

      all safely to the secure harbor of a happy peace, or we will

      all go down together with it.If we are to take total war seriously, as more than an empty phrase, 
        each must draw the proper conclusions both for his work and for his personal 
        life style. Up until now we boasted about all left over from peace that 
        was still ours in this fifth year of the war. Now we must learn to boast 
        about what we have thrown overboard. A simple, spartan lifestyle does 
        not have to be unhealthy. The more we adjust our lives to the realities 
        of war, the more we benefit our cause, which we all want to see triumph.It is no great honor for us that one hardly notices the war

      in public life, save in those areas suffering air attacks. In

      the future, the war should be everywhere evident. Every foreign

      visitor should encounter the war everywhere, and see that he

      is in a nation that is fighting for its life and future, and

      that is determined to make every necessary sacrifice. Only fools

      think this will diminish our national prestige. Rather, our friends

      will admire us and our foes will fear us. The more we bow to

      the demands of the war, the sooner it will bend to our will.

      An old proverb says that a nation should think only of war during

      peace. How much more true is this during war! Nothing takes precedence

      over the war effort. The more consistently we realize this, the

      easier it will be to give up the last remnants of peace and serve

      only the war effort.We have often said that this is not a matter of fundamentals that we 
        want to maintain forever. We are the last to call for primitivizing public 
        and private life. When, however, there is no other alternative, we must 
        have the courage to toss overboard all the old comforts and conveniences. 
        We will soon see how little we miss them. We know that there are countless 
        millions in our nation who are ready to make any sacrifice, as long as 
        they do not have to fear that their neighbor will fail to join them, leaving 
        them looking like a fool. They do not need to worry. The total war we 
        are waging is on the one hand a matter of each individual doing what obviously 
        has to be done, but it is also a matter of law and penalties. We cannot 
        allow millions of German women to work ten or twelve hours a day while 
        a few thousand do no work at all, for example. And they may not believe 
        that they can meet their duty to the nation by some sort of make-work 
        for their father or uncle. We will take the necessary action against such 
        elements. They sin not only against the material requirements of the war 
        effort, they also harm our morale.We are happy to enjoy the full support of our nation in these

      measures. One can truly say that this is what the people want.

      It has often enough made plain its resolve to give its full efforts

      for the war and victory, and to make every sacrifice necessary

      in the successful struggle for our life and freedom. There are

      only a few who from laziness, a lack of readiness and duty to

      the community, in part also because of comfort, are not willing

      to join in, or who do so half-heartedly. They must be helped

      along, not only for the sake of the countless millions who are

      doing their duty conscientiously, but also for their own good.

      More people perish from laziness than from diligence. Especially

      during a war in which a nation is fighting for its existence,

      everyone has the duty to join in. In the future, we must see

      anyone who seeks to escape his duties as a deserter, and anyone

      who knows and helps him as an accomplice to desertion. Let there

      be no doubt. From now on things will be different, and a sharp,

      fresh new breeze is blowing.This requires a whole series of measures that will reorganize our government 
        and all of public life. One can hardly expect that this will happen overnight, 
        and that things people have long complained about will vanish by tomorrow. 
        We need some time. But that is not a bad thing. The army and war production 
        can absorb only a limited number of new people, so the process must be 
        rapid but organic. We know where the difficulties are and will work to 
        eliminate them. The problems they cause will vanish with them. The measures 
        affecting public life will be as flexible as possible and take account 
        of the situation. We have no intention of eliminating the last forms of 
        pleasure and relaxation for the overwhelming majority of the nation who 
        work very hard. Small pleasures and comforts will be eliminated only where 
        they serve a larger goal. Our actions will be in balance with their results. 
        If for example I can keep the radio going with fewer people I will do 
        so. It provides pleasure for millions of people. But radio also must take 
        account of the war situation and get rid of everything that is not necessary.In short, we must all see the war as our first priority, giving

      ourselves body and soul to it, and avoiding every attempt to

      escape its demands or hide from it for a while. We must prove

      ourselves worthy of the great age in which we live so that even

      in the gravest moments we need never reproach ourselves. Thereby

      we will master all the problems the war confronts us with. We

      must never do too little too late. We will make no excuses, nor

      accept any. We will never forget that our behavior during the

      war will determine not only our future but that of our children

      and our children’s children. They place demands on us that we

      must fulfill if we do not want to lose the right to be part of

      the long history of the generations of our people. We want to

      pass on that inheritance to our posterity. Fate gave us a sign

      on 20 July. Forces were at work that wanted evil, but brought

      about good. We will not be idle. We will obey the call of duty,

      wherever and whenever we hear it, and know that our actions will

      bring about victory. It cannot be otherwise. This is a unique

      war effort, unprecedented in its length and hardness. We have

      grown through it such that we can master the growing difficulties.We have never believed so firmly in victory as in this hour.

      Our path is clear. None of us hesitates to follow it. Freedom

      and life are waiting at its end. There may be crises and difficulties

      along the way. We do not fear them. If we use our strength, we

      will overcome them. Our enemies are boasting too soon. They are

      only showing us what we must do. We do not care if they gloat

      today. The victor will not be the one who reaches too soon for

      the laurel wreath, but rather he who bravely and loyally does his

      duty, who is not shaken by the storm, who at the end of the war

      is still standing upright on the battlefield. 