If proof were still needed of the accuracy of our views of the political
         background of the whole war goal the enemy side is pursuing, it would
         be given by the most recent events in several countries at the edge
        of  our continent. England and the USA gave their blessing, and one cannot
         deny that the gentlemen in the Kremlin know what they want, and that
        nothing  and no one will divert them from realizing their plans and intentions.
         Their political world program is the same today as it was in October
        1917  when they destroyed czarism in the bloodiest of all revolutions
        in the  history of the entire world: the Bolshevization of the whole
        world, beginning  with paving the way to anarchy in individual nations,
        abolishing all legal  authority, giving all power to the streets. It
        runs like a red thread  through the history of Bolshevism, even if the
        actual methods vary. No  country on any continent can feel safe. The
        Kremlin may sometimes work  slowly, but it works with astonishing tenacity
        and determination. England  and the USA have used this war to help it
        along. The consequences of such  criminal behavior are becoming apparent.
        No one can say that even one  of the political prognoses we have made
        from the beginning about the further  development of this war has proved
        false. They sowed the wind and now  they are reaping the whirlwind. Red
        anarchy marches around Europe. They  are halted along certain borders,
        but only because of the German force  of order. All other attempts to
        defend against it must be seen as failures.  In other words, if the Reich
        were to collapse Stalin would become the  lord of Europe. Everyone knows
        what that would mean.We certainly do not want to overdramatize the situation. The situation
        is too obvious to require that. We see things as we have always seen
        them, that is, as they are. A quick look at the map demonstrates that
        the Reich today is the only bulwark against Bolshevism. The English and
        Americans have their military successes in the West only because the
        greater part of our forces are in the East, and the Soviets are able
        to roll over the southeast flank only because we must set considerable
        troop contingents against the Western powers. No one can fail to see
        that the Kremlin is making the best use of this situation. In the countries
        it has chosen to be its victims it uses the old Bolshevist practices;
        that is, it overthrows national governments that are too weak in character
        to resist under difficult conditions, disarms their military forces,
        occupies the critical points of the territory in question, and then lets
        anarchy run wild in the big cities. Mass meetings with pro-Bolshevist
        resolutions are followed by street demonstrations. The next stage is
        so-called popular elections, which happen under the Red Army’s bayonets.
        They always provide the nearly 100% results for Bolshevism that the Kremlin
        wants. The rest of the road is almost inevitable. The proceedings do
        not lack a certain monotony. One would think that its traces would terrify,
        but the opposite is true. They do not seem to fade away, but rather are
        tested again for their special situation. But the result is always the
        same.No one any longer will dare to suggest that we are speaking here only 
        in our own interest.The German people has made sacrifices over the past 
        five years because of its recognition of a danger to the world that entitle 
        it to speak on this matter. We have warned the peoples of Europe at every 
        opportunity, unfortunately mostly in vain. What our persuasive abilities 
        failed to achieve will now be proved in the relevant cases by Bolshevist 
        terror. The Red Army enters no country without a clear goal and a steadfast 
        program. Sometimes the Soviets seem to proceed in steps or in an uncertain 
        manner, but that is only for tactical reasons. Unless there is pressing 
        reason, they are reluctant to attract the attention of the world public, 
        and most often they succeed. One asks if it is as stupid as it looks, 
        or if it only looks stupid. That in the end makes no difference. What 
        is important is that Bolshevism’s results are the same, and the results, 
        however they may be reached, appear to be permanent once they are reached. 
        One can change them only with weapons. But where are they available in 
        sufficient quantities in the affected countries? We are in the war’s sixth 
        year. Those peoples without ideals worth fighting for and holding out 
        for are tired and worn out. He who has the strength to stay at his post 
        is almost certain of victory. But he who loses his strength or who no 
        longer wants to use it, who leaves his post, thereby signs his own death 
        sentence.How often have we brought this fundamental lesson of the war
      to the broad European public, and how seldom have we found an
      audience! What happened last year in Italy should really have
      sufficed; it was indeed more than enough. How could one presume
      that anyone would want to repeat that dangerous experiment, raising
      the false hope that it would turn out better for him than for
      the Italian people! English and American newspapers and magazines
      are filled with reports about the dreadful misery and misfortune
      in that part of Italy occupied by the enemy, which read like
      descriptions of hell.Can any one of the countries that have deserted our common
      cause in recent weeks expect that it will be better for it? Reports
      from Rumania and Bulgaria speak the same language. It would be
      historically ignorant to believe that political weakness and
      lack of character would be rewarded so soon and so well. Our
      enemies are not as generous as we were to the French people in
      Compiégne in the summer of 1940. They are serious about
      their campaign of hate and revenge toward us. They are not just
      battle cries. They want our very lives, and would exterminate
      our people and nation root and branch were we to surrender to
      their power. They agree on this, even if their individual opinions
      differ on this or that minor point. We must defend our existence
      in this war. We could not avoid this struggle for our national
      existence; it was forced on us, and any yielding to the enemy
      side would lead to weakness, and any weakness would lead to collapse.The German people knows that. As much as the growing burdens and sacrifices 
        of the war pain and torment us, they do not rob us of our clear political 
        vision of the nature and necessity of this fateful battle, a vision that 
        we unfortunately lacked in the year 1918. Our enemies harbor deceitful 
        illusions if they believe that we will one day again weaken and raise 
        the white flag. No one in Germany even thinks of that. The longer the 
        war lasts, the clearer it becomes to all of us what is at stake. How could 
        it be otherwise! Our enemies have left us no doubt as to our fate should 
        we bow before them. But we also know that unbroken courage and steadfast 
        determination in war always lead to success, even if it sometimes seems 
        that the material superiority of the opposing side can no longer be overcome. 
        It is clear to our enemies that their real difficulties will begin only 
        when they have reached the Reich’s borders. Until then, one or another 
        of us could believe that things were not really all that bad. No one talks 
        that way any longer. Each knows the gravity of the situation that we face 
        today, and that is a boost in strength and war potential that simply cannot 
        be measured. Who among us wants to forget that we have been fighting against 
        almost the entire world for more than five years, and despite their most 
        determined efforts, they have in no way succeeded in forcing us to the 
        ground, or even temporarily reducing our powers of resistance! As heavy 
        as the burdens on our people may be, everyone knows that no other people 
        would be able to carry and bear the same burdens under the same conditions. 
        Through that alone we have won in this war a leadership role that no one 
        will be able to dispute once the war is over.The summer of this year, during which our enemies promised the overthrow
         of the Reich, is over. Their united attack against our fronts did indeed
         bring us a whole series of military withdrawals and losses, but one
        may  look far and wide without seeing the slightest hint of a German
        collapse.  And the opposing side certainly threw everything at us that
        was within  its power. One cannot assume that they spared themselves
        in order to spare  us. Despite all the difficulties that we have had
        to endure in the past  weeks and months, it is clear that German powers
        of resistance have not  in any way been broken or even diminished. We
        have proved brave and manly,  and although our enemies wish that our
        strength were diminishing, it seems to be growing again. Our people’s
        total war effort has found and is finding, ways to transform national
        strength into genuine war potential, and has already produced astonishing
        results. We are thus building operative reserves that will be of decisive
        importance for the coming decisions in both the military and the economic
        sectors. It will not be long before we stop living from hand to mouth
        in both sectors, but are once again in a position to operate according
        to a broad plan. We are of the opinion that we will always succeed and
        must succeed in mastering all the difficulties that surface as the war
        develops, however insurmountable they may sometimes seem. He who fights
        for his life always finds a way out of danger. And, by the way, one should
        not believe that the enemy side is free of problems. They, too, have
        in part been fighting for over five years and know as well as we what
        that means.As a German, one can only speak with pride of the high war morale that 
        our people has shown in these weeks and months of crisis. It is beyond 
        praise, and earns the greatest admiration from the whole world, even from 
        our enemies. They have nowhere succeeded in breaking and destroying it. 
        The Reich cannot be beaten from this side either. Germany is fighting 
        under these extraordinary conditions for the place in the sun that it 
        deserves and that it has been so long denied. Our people does not disappoint 
        the expectations its leadership has in its steadfastness. The mistake 
        we made in November 1918, and for which we paid so dearly, ultimately 
        with this war, will never be repeated. The sound political instinct of 
        our people, its hard work and its eagerness for battle, and above all 
        its war morale hardened in the spirit of National Socialism, guarantee 
        this. Its leadership wishes only to be worthy of the virtues of its people. 
        Without fear or wavering, it conducts the titanic struggle for the life 
        and future of the Reich, using all means of resistance and attack that 
        are at its disposal. It feels that it is obeying a higher historical mission 
        that must be fulfilled if our part of the world, and thereafter all of 
        the civilized world, is not to sink into chaos. We will fight against 
        that possibility as long as there is breath in our bodies. We resist thereby 
        a rotten decadent environment that here and there faces resignedly the 
        storm of threatening disaster, letting things run their course. We Germans 
        do not consider behaving that way, and therefore we are the people that 
        will rescue the world, if not today, tomorrow.Our enemies themselves have taught us what we must do in the decisive 
        phase of this war. If they suggest we lay down our weapons and make a 
        cowardly surrender, we respond with icy contempt. We know them too well 
        not to know their plans. They will never throw us to the ground, never 
        strike the sword from our hand. Never will we surrender our right to live 
        in freedom and dignity as we ourselves wish. Whatever may come, we will 
        stand upright through all the storms, working and fighting, filled with 
        faithful confidence in the great historical mission that the Führer 
        has given us. The more it is threatened, the more deeply we feel obligated 
        to it. We are despite it all on the right path. The future will prove 
        that. For above this war stands a higher law that we must obey. It is 
        our companion through these dark times. What is the hysterical scream 
        of our enemies over against it! They can never shake our faith and our 
        confidence. The German people today stands like a soldier on the front 
        line. It knows that danger is near. It therefore unsheathes its weapons, 
        ready at any moment to use them when the hour of greatest trial comes. 