 We Germans are not the only ones in the sixth year of war.

      One may assume that the problems the war’s long duration have

      given us also affect the other combatant nations. Each warring

      nation is naturally eager to conceal this from the eyes of the

      enemy and present a facade that does not accurately reflect the

      true situation. The war is having the same effects on all participating

      nations, but one can see those effects faster and more clearly

      in one’s own country than in the enemy’s. As we always say, the

      other side is no better than we are. The German people loves

      the truth, indeed is fanatic about it. It therefore finds it

      hard to understand that in war everyone must play by the same

      rules to have a chance at success. Recently the U.S. military

      leadership admitted the loss of a 20,000-ton troop ship two years

      ago. That would not be possible with us. The German people would

      not accept such silence on the part of its leadership. It wants

      to know exactly how things stand, sometimes forgetting that what

      is told to it is also told to the enemy. One can argue about

      which way in the long run is the most successful, but it is clear

      that our enemy knows how to stay silent better than we do, and

      that we as a result are inclined to think their situation is

      better than it in fact is.As a result we must occasionally consider the war’s broad

      picture, not forgetting that it is likely that things are concealed

      from us by the enemy’s greater secretiveness. The fact that the

      enemy conceals his calamities from us does not mean they do not

      exist. They exist nonetheless and influence the overall state

      of the war, even if we do not know it. The extent of total Soviet

      losses, which can be estimated at about 15 million, certainly

      has consequences for the Bolshevist military potential. If the

      Red Army continues to attack nonetheless, it does not mean that

      Soviet reserves are inexhaustible, but rather that the Kremlin is

      using everything it has to defeat us as quickly as possible in

      the hopes that it can carry out its planned extermination of

      the German people with what remains of its armed strength. That

      is also true to a certain extent of the Western enemy. The resources

      of the military leadership grow steadily smaller because of the

      long duration of this gigantic war, and it is probably true that

      in the end the last regiment will decide the last battle.The fact that we are still firmly on our feet and show not

      the least sign of collapse is sufficient proof that our enemies

      cannot do what they want, that they suffer from internal problems,

      and that they make such terrible threats only to keep us from

      noticing that. It is well known that at the point during the

      First World War when the German leadership thought the situation

      was hopeless and prepared the Reich for capitulation, the British

      military leadership told its government clearly that England’s

      losses on the Western Front were so great that it was necessary

      to seek an agreement with Germany to end the war. If the leadership

      of the Reich had known that, it would have undoubtedly made a

      different decision than the one it blindly made.The reasons for its uncertainty and weakness would have been

      insignificant a few months later, not to mention today. In the

      end, one cannot deal with a national crisis of this magnitude

      by reducing the fat and bread rations, important as solving the

      crisis may seem at the time. The German leadership had not known

      that a large part of the French army mutinied in 1917, and that

      a single energetic German blow would have been enough to break

      through and perhaps force a decision to our advantage. France

      then saved itself by silence. Who can be sure than England, for

      example, is not doing the same today? Its government has already

      admitted that in the course of this war various things have happened

      that we did not realize at the time. One can therefore draw the

      conclusion that we learn little about the enemy’s real difficulties

      during a war, and that one can assume that at any given time

      things are happening, even if they are not publicly discussed.We must behave accordingly. We are in the midst of war, one

      in which we are defending our very existence. Everything we do

      must take that into account. It is irrelevant whether or not

      that agrees with the fanaticism for objectivism on the part of

      some confused minds. The war is a deadly serious matter , not

      only at the moment, but also in terms of its future consequences.

      Our enemy is attacking us with all their resources, and we have

      to use all our resources in defense. The difficulties that may

      cause us are of secondary importance in comparison to what is

      at stake. The war is equally hard on all participating nations

      and people. We cannot postpone its burdens to some other day,

      even if they sometimes descend upon us with devastating force.

      The marathon runner cannot stop running at the 35th kilometer

      because he fears that his lungs will fail and say that he will

      finish the race the next day. He must either keep running even

      if he fears his heart will fail, or else give up. The time to

      make history is short, and he who does not use the opportunity

      fails. The burdens of such a time certainly may seem unbearable,

      but those burdens decide which nation is called to victory and

      which is damned to defeat.One should never think that our enemies have it better than we do. First, 
        one cannot know that for sure, and second, a range of signs point to exactly 
        the opposite. The Soviet losses, for example, are enormously greater than 
        ours, yet they continue to attack. England has had to sacrifice the wealth 
        it has gained over the centuries, and shows no sign of giving up now. 
        We have no choice but to carry on the war, however bitter it may be, if 
        we do not want to risk having made all our previous sacrifices in vain. 
        And one cannot say that those on top have it good, since they take on 
        all the burdens of the people. Their sons fall at the front as do the 
        other sons of our people, and the leadership carries a responsibility 
        that would break lesser men. It is not true that the war’s burdens are 
        distributed unequally. The life of our whole people is at risk and we 
        must defend it with our entire national strength. This is no war of the 
        army and no war of the party, but rather a holy people’s war.We are living through the greatest crisis of occidental humanity.

      The crisis has been caused by the Western-democratic-plutocratic

      world and is carried on today by them despite the fact that they

      themselves are the prime sufferers of the alarming events. No

      one can say that the Führer did not make every attempt to

      find a peaceful way out, because he knew from the beginning the

      terrible consequences that war would have. The Western camp hindered

      his efforts, and today is paying a huge cost for its stubbornness.

      England is already complaining about the loss of all the wealth

      it built during the Victorian era, and who knows what a devastating

      position it will be in when this gigantic struggle ends. But

      what good does this knowledge and these predictions do us when

      the enemy leadership holds stubbornly to its decision to carry

      on the war at any price, with the goal of destroying Germany

      and exterminating the German people. We must therefore fight

      with all our strength, even if all of Europe has to suffer gravely

      as a result. It is not our fault, but rather it is the fault of the

      British who are running amuck. Their only war aim is a sick desire

      for revenge on Germany. They will never live to see their pathological

      desires fulfilled , but they will see their Empire destroyed

      and the British people fall from the proud heights of their former

      power and prestige. Germany is and will remain the fulcrum of

      all the world’s conflicts, and how important it is and how far

      its influence reaches will become suddenly and drastically clear

      when this war ends. It all hangs on our ability to keep going

      and not do our enemies the favor of stopping before we have finished.Especially since the last summer, we see the war in an entirely

      different light. Until then we saw it only from the military

      perspective, but we have gotten more and more used to seeing

      it as a world crisis that today is seen primarily from the military

      aspect. The war has called into question every part of our life

      and every aspect of international relations that existed before

      the war began. This war will leave no one in the same inner or

      outer condition in which he entered it. One may regret that,

      but there is nothing one can do about it. Not only the buildings

      of our cities and the cathedrals and cultural monuments of Europe

      are falling into ruins, but also a whole world. Some love that

      world, others think it damned. The world of bourgeois egotism

      and super-individualism has proven itself sterile and incapable

      of effectively and fruitfully organizing the life of a people.

      With its passing bourgeois phraseology also fails, the art of

      saying little or nothing in many words and of concealing the

      real problems of the peoples through a series of stupid conferences.Since 1933, the German nation has attempted to build a new and better 
        world in peaceful ways. Its enemies from the bourgeois-plutocratic world 
        did not want that, and did not shrink at the decisive hour from calling 
        on world Bolshevism for help its attempt to strangle the founding of our 
        people’s new community. One has only to ask two questions. Where would 
        the peoples of Europe be today if they had imitated the German effort 
        to solve the problems of the twentieth century? And what is their situation 
        today, having fought a bloody war against Germany, and what crimes against 
        humanity have they committed? The enemy nations of Europe under diabolic 
        leadership have in fact transformed heaven into hell.Still, nothing has yet been lost that cannot be restored.

      The plutocratic leaders can hardly believe that it will be possible

      to deceive the people about the extent of their sacrifice as

      they did after the First World War. Unfortunately, Germany has

      not been able to carry out a peaceful exchange of ideas and goods.

      Today, it faces the historical necessity of a defensive war.

      The decision of our enemies to attack us with weapons brought

      the latent crisis that followed the First World War into the

      open, and it must now not only be faced, but mastered. The German

      people has its own historical mission to fulfill. Whether or

      not the other nations want to admit it does not change the fact

      that we Germans today are the pathfinders for a new civilization

      of the nations, and also of a better and nobler humanity. For

      us, this war will result in a people’s state of the purest nature.

      It will include all levels and classes, a home for the strong

      as well as the weak, an object of pride for the whole world.

      It will rise like a phoenix from the ashes that this war has

      covered Europe with. One can only smile at the English dreams

      of teaching the German people after the war. The first attempt

      would make it clear to them that they had nothing to give, but

      everything to take. The new and better order has its core in

      the Reich, and the German people are its bearers and guardians.

      The flames of our burning cities are torches lighting the way

      to the goal.This war is far more to us than a military drama of shattering

      tragedy. It is a crisis of humanity, and the only nation that

      will master it is the one sure of its cause, the one that knows

      exactly what it wants, but also wants exactly what it knows.

      The war leads therefore like a judgment of God and looks past

      everything to a higher historical Providence that has called

      Germany to suffer much in order to become much, to bear much

      to learn much, and above all to want much in order to be able

      to do great things. 