  
That one man has captured the hearts of the whole nation,

      despite the sometimes difficult and unpopular decisions he had

      to make, is perhaps the deepest, most amazing secret of our age.

      It cannot be explained only by his accomplishments, for it is

      just those who have had to make the heaviest sacrifices for him

      and for national reconstruction, indeed who must still bring

      them, who have sensed his mission in the deepest and most joyful

      way. They are the ones who have the most honest and passionate

      love for him as Führer and as a man. That is the result

      of the magic of his personality and the deep mystery of his pure

      and honest humanity,It is of this humanity, which those who are nearest to him

      see most clearly, of which I speak today.All genuine humanity is characterized by simplicity and clarity

      in being and in action. It displays itself in the smallest as

      well as the greatest matters. The simple clarity that is evident

      in his political nature is also the dominating principle of his

      entire life. One cannot imagine him putting on a front. His people

      would not recognize him were he to do so. His daily meals are

      the simplest, most modest, imaginable. He dines no differently,

      whether it is with a small group of friends or at a state banquet.

      At a recent reception for officials of the Winter Relief program

      and old party member asked him if he could have an autographed

      copy of the menu as a souvenir. He paused for a moment and then

      laughed: “That’s fine. The menu stays the same here; anyone

      is welcome to look it over.”Adolf Hitler is one of the few state leaders who avoids medals and decorations. 
        He wears only a single high medal that he earned as a simple personal 
        solider displaying the greatest personal bravery. That is proof of modesty, 
        but also of pride. There is no one worthy to decorate him, other then 
        he himself. Any form of ostentation is foreign to him, but when he represents 
        the state and his people, he does so with impressive and appropriate grace. 
        Behind all that he is and does are the words of the great soldier Schlieffen, 
        who wrote: “Be more than you seem!” His industry and determination 
        in reaching his goal far exceed normal human strength. Several days ago 
        I returned to Berlin at 1 a.m. after several hard days and was ready for 
        sleep, but he wanted a report from me. At 2 a.m. he was still alert, still 
        at work all alone in his home. For two hours he listened to a report on 
        the construction of the national highways, a theme that would seem distant 
        from the great international problems with which he had been occupied 
        the entire day from early in the morning to late at night. Before the 
        last Nuremberg rally, I was his guest for a week in Obersalzburg. The 
        light shone from his window each night until 6 or 7 a.m. He was dictating 
        the great speeches he would give a few days later at the rally. His cabinet 
        approves no law that he has not studied to the smallest detail. His military 
        knowledge is comprehensive; he knows the details of each weapon, each 
        machine gun as well as any specialist. When he gives a speech he knows 
        each detail. His working method is entirely clear. Nothing is further 
        from him than nervousness or hysterical tension. He knows better than 
        anyone else that there are a hundred problems to be solved. He chooses 
        the two or three he finds most central and works on them, undistracted 
        by the remaining ones, for he know that if he solves the great problems, 
        the problems of second or third magnitude will solve themselves.His approach to problems shows both the determination necessary

      to deal with essentials and the flexibility essential in the

      choice of methods. He has principles and beliefs, but he knows

      how to reach them by careful selection of methods and approaches.

      He has never changed his basic goals. He does today what he determined

      to do in 1919. But he has always been flexible in the methods

      he used to realize his goals. When he was offered the vice chancellorship

      in August 1932, he rejected the offer. He had the feeling that

      the time was not yet ripe and that the ground offered to him

      was too small to stand on. But when he was offered a wider door

      to power on 30 January 1933, he walked courageously through it.

      It was not the full responsibility he wanted, but he knew that

      the ground he know stood upon was sufficient to begin the fight

      for full power. The know-it-alls understood neither decision.

      Today they must reluctantly grant that he was superior not only

      in his tactics, but also in the strategic use of the principles

      in ways they short-sightedly failed to see.Two pictures last summer vividly showed the Führer in all his aloneness. 
        The first showed him greeting the Wehrmacht just after he was forced to 
        bloodily put down the treason and mutiny of 30 June. His face showed the 
        bitterness of the difficult hours he had experienced. The second photograph 
        was of him leaving the house of the dying marshall and Reich president 
        in Neudeck. His expression shows the shadow of pain and sorrow in the 
        face of pitiless death that in a few hours would tear from him his fatherly 
        friend. With almost prophetic foresight to told us in his innermost circle 
        on New Year’s Eve that 1934 would be a dangerous year, one which would 
        likely see the death of Hindenburg. Now the inevitable had happened. One 
        thing was plain in his granite face: the pain of an entire nation, a pain 
        that would not descend to mere complaining.The entirely nation not only honors him, it loves him deeply and fervently, 
        for it has the feeling that he belongs to them. He is flesh of its flesh 
        and spirit of its spirit. That shows itself in the smallest aspects of 
        everyday life. It is plain in the camaraderie in the Reich Chancellery 
        between the least SS man and the Führer. When he travels, he sleeps 
        in the same hotel and under the same conditions as everyone else. Is it 
        any wonder that the least of those around him are the most loyal?! They 
        have the instinctive feeling that his is no facade, but rather the result 
        of his inner and obvious spiritual nature.Several weeks ago, 50 young German girls from abroad, who had completed 
        a year of schooling and were now about to return to their suffering home 
        countries, visited the chancellor, hoping to see him for a moment. He 
        invited them all to dinner. For hours they had to tell him of their modest 
        lives. As they were leaving, they suddenly sang the song “If All 
        Become Untrue,” and tears flowed from their eyes. In the midst of 
        them stood the man who has become the incarnation of eternal Germany, 
        giving them friendly and good-hearted consolation to encourage them on 
        their difficult journey.He came from the people and remains a part of them. He who negotiated 
        for two 15-hour days at a conference with diplomats of mighty England, 
        who mastered arguments and facts on the great questions of Europe, can 
        speak with complete ease to ordinary people, and can with a comradely 
        “Du” restore the confidence of a fellow war veteran who greets 
        him with a nervous heart after perhaps days of wondering how to greet 
        him and what to say. The weakest approach him with confidence, for they 
        sense that he is their friend and protector. The entire nation loves him, 
        because it feels as safe in his arms as a child in the arms of its mother.This man is a fanatic in his cause. He has sacrificed his personal happiness 
        and private life. He knows nothing other than the work that he does as 
        the truest servant of the Reich.An artist becomes a statesman, and his historic work reveals

      his remarkable abilities. He needs no external honors; his greatest

      honor is the enduring permanence of his labors. But we who have

      the good fortune to be near him each day receive light from his

      light and want only to be obedient followers behind his flag.

      Many times he has told the circle of his oldest fellow fighters

      and closest friends: “It will be terrible when the first

      of us dies and there is an empty place here that can no longer

      be filled.” May a gracious fate ordain that he live the

      longest, that for many decades the nation will continue under

      his leadership along the path to new freedom, greatness and power.

      That is the honest and passionate wish that the entire German

      nation lays in thankfulness at his feet. Not only we who stand

      near him, but the last man in the most distant village, join

      in saying:“He is now what he always was, and always will be: Our

      Hitler!”