 The war has reached a stage at which only the full efforts of the nation 
        and of each individual can save us. The defence of our freedom no longer 
        depends on the army fighting at the front. Each civilian, each man and 
        woman and boy and girl must fight with unequaled fanaticism. The enemy 
        expects that, once his tanks have broken through, they will find no resistance. 
        He believes that we will be so disconcerted by his material superiority 
        that we will let things take their course, without caring how they turn 
        out. We must prove the enemy’s hopes wrong. No village and no city may 
        give in to the enemy. The enemy is strong, but not strong enough to hold 
        all the territory of the Reich without our help. If he persuades us to 
        capitulate, he will have an easy time with us. The enemy has laid waste 
        to our cities and provinces through the worst and most terrible bombing 
        terror. As long as we are determined to resist at all costs, we cannot 
        be beaten, and for us not being beaten means to be victorious.This war of nations demands heavy sacrifice. Still, those

      sacrifices do not begin to compare with those we would be forced

      to bring if we lose. The enemy naturally wants to make his battle

      against the Reich as easy and safe as possible, and hopes to

      diminish our morale by seductive agitation. That is poison for

      weak souls. He who falls for it proves he has learned nothing

      from the war. He thinks it possible to take the easy road, when

      only the hard path leads to freedom. They are the same doubting

      souls who have no sense of national honor, and think nothing

      of living under the clubs of Anglo-American banking Jews, accepting

      charity from their hands. In other words, they are the rubbish

      of our nation, who nonetheless give the enemy an entirely false

      idea of this people. One sees how the English and American newspapers

      have fun with them, mocking and scorning them, and comparing

      them with a brave nation fighting for its life. That nation,

      which has demonstrated heroism and more heroism, has only one

      wish when reading these accounts: to kill them. They deserve

      nothing else. One cannot even claim that they do not know what

      they are doing. They have to know it, for they have been told

      often enough, even by the enemy, should they not want to believe

      us.In the midst of a thousand battles, burdens and defeats, our

      people stand unbroken. Our hearts are proud when we hear from

      the enemy the wild fanaticism they encounter, how fathers, mothers

      and even children gather to resist the invaders, how boys and

      girls throw hand grenades and mines or shoot from cellar windows

      without regard to danger. They force the enemy to give them respect.

      They tie up his forces. They force him to commit his reserves

      to hold a rebellious city or a village glowing with national

      fanaticism, thereby slowing his advance until a new defensive

      line can be built a few kilometers further on. It is an absurd

      reversal of the facts to claim they are fighting in desperation.

      The enemy’s attacks are riskier than the methods we use to resist.

      They have a solid foundation, which will soon make its impact

      known in the course of the war. A nation that defended its freedom

      with all its resources has never yet been defeated. Often, however,

      those that give in from desperation have been defeated.Our entire war effort requires revolutionary changes. The

      old rules of war are outdated, and have no use at all in our

      present situation. This is the age of wars between nations. When

      whole peoples are threatened, whole peoples must defend themselves.

      The enemy does not want to take a province from us or push us

      back to more favorable strategic borders; he wants to cut our

      very arteries by destroying our mines and factories, destroying

      our national substance. If he succeeds, Germany will become a

      cemetery. Our people will starve and perish, aside from the millions

      who will be deported to Siberia as slave labor. In such a situation,

      any means is justified. We are in a state of national emergency;

      it is no time to ask what is normally done! Does the enemy worry

      about that? Where does international law allow for the tens of

      thousands of German women tortured and raped in the East, or

      the tens of thousands of German children who have been murdered

      in a cowardly and terrible way, or the many who have fallen victim

      to barbaric enemy bombing terror? All normal ideas of warfare

      have long since been discarded by the enemy. Only we good natured

      Germans still hold to them in the mistaken idea that we might

      thereby bring the enemy to reason.The facts prove the opposite. Our enemies are even insolent

      enough to call us barbarians and war criminals because here and

      there we put up touch resistance with the means we have available.

      Just recently, British terror fliers who had been shot down after

      doing their destructive work were attacked by men and women in

      Berlin, who after their homes had been destroyed were trying

      to rescue their possessions and dig out the corpses of their

      parents and children. Their reaction was understandable, but

      German guards protected them with their weapons. What would happen

      to a captured German pilot, were he lead through a flaming Moscow?

      To ask the question is to answer it. Knightly behavior will not

      accomplish much in this war. The German dreamer must wake up

      if he does not want to lose his freedom and his life. How long

      will he wait to do what is necessary? Will he wait until Bolshevist

      posters appear ordering everyone between fourteen and fifty to

      show up at a certain spot with clothing and two weeks of food

      in order to be transported to Siberia? Or until the Anglo-American

      occupation forces ruin our people through starvation and Typhoid

      Fever?Is that an exaggeration? Not at all! It has become grim reality

      in the occupied territories in the East and West. Only a few

      romantic souls fail to see it. They have built a world of illusions,

      and do not want to believe the hard facts and draw the necessary

      conclusions. They must change their thinking, and as fast as

      possible. Someone once said that he did not know which people

      could be beaten to death, but he did know that the German people

      had to be beaten to life. What kind of blow will it take to finally

      wake these people from their illusions, to persuade them to give

      up their fantasies and errors, for their own good even if not

      for that of everyone else? What will persuade these obstructionists

      and defeatists to defend themselves?The enemy is out to get us all. The London papers recently

      reported that Anglo-American officers viewed with contempt the

      owners of the houses where they were quartered. They were buying

      German-English dictionaries in order to parley. Only the domestic

      servants refused to behave in so unworthy a manner. What can

      one say about such creatures? Beating them seems the only possible

      solution. Thank God, these are isolated events. What can a German

      think about people who have had their property destroyed and

      who have been told they will be tortured in the manner of the

      Middle Ages, who still want to have a pleasant conversation with

      their conquerors?Why do we mention these examples? In order to protect healthy

      people against infection. Were they to succumb, it would all

      be over. We would have no salvation, no future. We must help

      ourselves if we are to receive any help at all. It is more than

      naive to hope that the enemy will help us. We still have enough

      means and opportunities to defend ourselves and to bring the

      war to a successful conclusion if we only use them. This is the

      center of our efforts.Each must start with himself, banishing all weakness and lethargy. He 
        must stand firm and give an example to others, he must be on guard when 
        he hears defeatism. He must be a man and act, work, and fight until we 
        have overcome the gravest crisis of this war. We do not know how long 
        that will take, only that it is necessary if we wish to live. That is 
        true for every German, whether at the front or at home. No one can leave 
        it to everyone else. We are all in the same boat that is plowing through 
        the storm. No one can sit in a corner grumbling and complaining, making 
        only critical remarks to the helmsman and the other passengers. Who can 
        hold it against the rest when he who apparently shows no regard for the 
        rest is tossed overboard to ease the strain on the rest, both physically 
        and because they have wearied of a professional complainer who is endangering 
        their efforts to save themselves? That is how things are.We can no longer pay any heed to weariness, weakness, and delicacy. What 
        we want, and what the intentions of our devilish enemy are, has been said 
        often and clearly enough during the war. It does not need to be repeated. 
        Everyone knows it. Developments have confirmed it, not contradicted it. 
        There is no hope that the weaklings are right correct in their cowardly 
        excuse that things will be only half as bad as we fear. If the enemy’s 
        agitation deceives us into surrender, things will be much worse than we 
        predicted. We must draw the proper conclusions, coolly, calmly, without 
        complaining, but also with determination. Raising the white flag means 
        giving up the war and shamefully losing one’s life. There is no reason 
        for doing that. To the contrary, that would only help our enemy to win 
        a cheap victory, and for at least a while cover up the growing crisis 
        in his coalition.The results are easy to see. They would affect us only, and

      sooner or later would result in the complete destruction of our

      nation. No one is willing to accept that fate. We must therefore

      fight on, resisting at all costs, even under the toughest and

      bleakest conditions. We fought for years almost without risk.

      That was not particularly commendable. The risk was entirely

      on the enemy’s side. They overcame the danger. Who thinks that

      we cannot do the same? He should buy a noose and do to himself

      what he thinks is going to happen to our whole nation.We still live and breathe, and have mountains of resistance left in us 
        that we only need draw upon. Never have we believed so passionately in 
        Germany as today, when the Reich has before it a crisis of unparalleled 
        seriousness. One may not judge a sick person’s chances of recovery by 
        his fevered delusions. Rather, every possible means must be used to reduce 
        the fever and waken the body’s natural defenses, to give the patient courage 
        so that he does not lose the will to live. One must strengthen his defenses 
        so that they can bring him through the critical moments. Any other behavior 
        is foolish and dangerous. A fourteen-year-old lad crouching with his bazooka 
        behind a ruined wall on a burned out street is worth more to the nation 
        than ten intellectuals who attempt to prove that our chances now are nil. 
        The fighting lad acts instinctively in the right way, the intellectuals 
        act in a false and illogical way because they give up since things do 
        not seem in balance.Whether things balance or not depends on us alone. The final

      account of the war will depend on the whole efforts of the involved

      nations. The German people can yet make an unprecedented contribution.

      It will thereby earn the victory. In 1918, we gave up at the

      last minute. That will not happen in 1945. We all have to see

      to that. This is the foundation of our ultimate victory. It may

      sound improbable today, but it is nonetheless so: Final victory

      will be ours. It will come through tears and blood, but it will

      justify all the sacrifices we have made. 